Theme Tune: [Music]
Al: Hello farmers, and welcome to another episode of the harvest season, by name is Al
Aislinn: My name is Aslan.
Micah: And I'm Micah.
Al: And we are here today to talk about God's score games
Micah: Yippee.
Micah: Ooh, wait.
Micah: Sorry, I meant Yippee.
Al: I don't know. We've not talked about the games yet. We'll see
Micah: Yeah, it's true, true.
Al: Because this is our game of the year episode a woo it is this one comes out very satisfyingly
Al: On the 31st of December the last day of the year very enjoyable
Al: So obviously we will have no news because we are recording this what three weeks early
Al: Yeah, three weeks early because nobody because nobody wants to record a podcast on Christmas
Aislinn: - Yeah.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: [laughing]
Al: So no news we're just gonna talk about the games of the year except
Al: Because obviously we've got Micah on we don't often have Micah on and Aslan's been a few weeks
Al: We're gonna talk about what we'd be up to as well
Al: So Micah, what have you been up to?
Micah: I can't do the indie game, but again, I already did it all.
Al: Yeah, I know a bit. People would have heard it yet. It's not. It kind of comes out later.
Micah: You know, a little indie game called Pokemon Legends EA primarily is what I'd been up to.
Micah: I am doing, I very stupidly did a challenge run for my first playthrough of it, and I'm still doing it.
Micah: So we'll see if I get to play the DLC when it comes out.
Al: Yes, we're recording this four days before the DLC comes out so just to put that in context, obviously.
Micah: [laughter]
Micah: Stop saying the time.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: I'm just giving people context for why we're talking about it as if we haven't played it because we haven't played it.
Micah: It's dressing me out, huh?
Micah: [laughter]
Al: We played the game, but not the DLC.
Aislinn: I'm fine with the context to be fair. So as far as I know, it's only Micah that's
Micah: It's crazy that you guys would do this to me.
Aislinn: opposed. It's not me. Just putting it out there.
Al: Are you trying to carry favor here?
Aislinn: We're talking for the first time. I'm against him. I'm opposed to him.
Micah: Yeah, I have actually played quite a bit.
Al: Have you played anything else since we've last talked to my car?
Micah: I've been playing a lot of, uh, Yakuza zero.
Al: Ooh, is that the new one?
Micah: Uh, it is not. It was the first one that they released on the switch to was the Yakuza zero directors cut.
Al: Oh, this is, this is a remake, isn't it?
Micah: It is chronologically the first one. It's not. It's a port. It's just a port of, of Yakuza zero.
Micah: So the, the Yakuza franchise has gone like they did Yakuza one and then two and then three and then four and then five.
Micah: And then I think six and then zero.
Micah: So zero is like the, the, the, the, the, the backstory for the main character Kiryu and another main character Majumagoro and they're kind of like them coming up as young Yakuza and they're like trials and tribulations and stuff. Very interesting, very well written.
Micah: If you know anything about the Yakuza franchise, sometimes at least in the like side quest portion of it.
Micah: A little raunchy, so, um, be, buyer beware, I guess. Uh, but it is, so they, they are some of the most intricately made open world games and in my opinion, there's so much to do in them. There's a whole in Yakuza zero, it takes place in the 80s in Japan and there's a whole side bit where you can just like build.
Micah: Pocket race cars and race them on like tracks against
Micah: kids and stuff and it's it's awesome.
Al: I keep thinking about playing one of these. Um, I think the thing that made me go, oh, interesting
Al: was infinite wealth where they had that like random Pokémon game in it. And I'm like, oh, interesting.
Micah: Mm-hmm. Yeah, not just an in Pokemon game, but they have an entire animal crossing
Micah: style game that I've heard. I haven't played it, but
Al: Oh, yeah, that was the one that that was the island one, wasn't it? They've got random island you go
Micah: Yes, yes, because infinite well takes place in Hawaii. It's the first time that it doesn't take place in a Japanese territory and
Al: which is ironically not the game that has Hawaii in the title.
Micah: Right, correct. That one is a pirate game that's a spin off.
Al: That's the next one.
Micah: It's an insane experience playing the acting game because it's like the the core story is very serious and very dramatic and it's you know about the Japanese mob and all the like horrors that come along with it, but like, and it's very gritty, but everything else in the game is insane.
Al: Obviously.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Micah: It's just like goofy, it's wild. There's tons of stuff to do. It's it's it's very funny and like doesn't take itself super.
Micah: super seriously, which I love, unless you're in the like core of the story, then for the most part, it takes itself pretty seriously until you get to seven, which is like a dragon and the main character is is very goofy, but also in a really charming way.
Micah: I highly recommend them their attention to detail for like the areas to the the the the cities that they take place in, which are actual real world Japanese cities, but.
Micah: They're just the names are slightly changed or like you know the not the exact businesses, but they still have a lot of like licensing rights for things like if you know donkey hote the like big Japanese.
Micah: Department store chain that just fully exists in the game like they have the rights to put those in the game for whatever reason.
Micah: There's there's lots of stuff and it's Sega so they always have, you know, Sega arcades that you can go into.
Micah: and just play old Sega games and like the arcade. Just there's lots of stuff to it. It's it's a lot of fun and I've been playing through zero because they just released one and two the one and two remakes on the switch to and they're releasing the remake of three in like February and it's got new story content. So they are I mean they've all existed for quite a while now. I think they're just trying to get as much of the library onto the switch to as they can.
Al: Yeah, but the thing is that porting still takes a lot of work, right?
Micah: Oh for sure for sure. Right. Right. Right. Right. Totally.
Al: It's not you don't you don't just click the big port button right like
Al: This is the thing like people talk about porting as if it's like, oh, just port it to a new console
Al: Be like it's not that simple though, right?
Al: Like especially especially if you're talking about, you know, the first game came out on PS2 PS3 and Wii U and those
Al: I mean first of all those three consoles had very different
Al: architectures and in all the first place. And then, you know, you're talking.
Al: about moving on to this which, too, which is an arm based
Al: processor that sure existed back then. But like, no games were using it. So it's like, it's a massive, a massive difference there.
Micah: The studio that makes these games is extremely dedicated and very talented, and it's very worth your time if it's something that you might be interested in.
Al: I'm just worried that I start to like them and then that is like several hundred hours gone.
Micah: Oh totally, yep, there's a whole side, like, mechanic in Yakuza Zero, where you, as part
Aislinn: I'm in that same camp.
Micah: of the story, you become a real estate agent, and there's a whole side portion of the
Micah: game, where you can just run, like, real estate and make a bunch of money that way.
Micah: And I've put probably like 30 or 40 hours of it has been just doing the like, I know,
Al: That's a whole game. That's a whole game. You're talking about it there.
Aislinn: [laughter]
Micah: and that's the thing with infinite wealth is that the Pokemon game and the animal
Micah: crossing game, I've heard because I haven't played it yet myself, I've gotten that far,
Micah: that they are like full 40 plus hour games that you could, they could just be games themselves,
Micah: that they just included for no reason other than just to put them in the game.
Al: like do I have the time in my life to play a yakuza game? That's my real worry. Do I have
Aislinn: Oh my god.
Micah: that's that's a valid question so i'm playing that that's a lot of whatever
Al: I don't, I legitimately don't know the answer to that question. Fair enough. All right,
Al: Aslan, what have you been up to?
Aislinn: I have been up to a number of variety of things.
Aislinn: I think since I was last on, I don't think I talked about vampire survivors, I don't remember.
Aislinn: So I finally, for the first time, picked that game up and that was fun.
Al: I think you talked about it as you were going to be playing it.
Aislinn: Okay, so then post vampire survivors update, I like the game a lot.
Al: Because I don't remember what we talked about it and I was like we talked about how it looks and I had been surprised
Al: When I eventually looked at a screenshot of what the game looks like and you were like yummy too because it looks bad
Aislinn: Yeah, it's not aesthetically, it's not my favorite.
Micah: [laughing]
Al: That's what that is a very diplomat that is the that is the description of someone who hates the look of the game, but now likes playing the game
Micah: [laughter]
Aislinn: Yeah, that's how I feel.
Aislinn: Honestly, that's how I feel.
Aislinn: It's been fun to pick up the game here and there.
Aislinn: So aesthetically, and debatable.
Aislinn: But it's a time, but aesthetically,
Al: [laughter]
Aislinn: I did enjoy and finish and played one session
Aislinn: with care and that was very nice.
Micah: Oh, is that the game where you're like you are putting like electronics together and stuff at like a desk?
Aislinn: Yeah, you're kind of traveling around, I guess you could say in one sense or another, but you are like yes
Micah: Oh, okay, okay
Aislinn: You're fixing your disassembling fixing things and then put it things together and then it progresses a story
Micah: That looks so fun
Al: Oh, it's us too. They're the ones who make Monument Valley and they also made Alba.
Micah: Ohhh... Yeah.
Aislinn: Oh well they made a great game with this one. It was like I think I played it in like maybe
Al: Same people.
Aislinn: no more than two hours so it was a very bite size game but it was satisfying to play.
Al: That sounds, yeah, that sounds like a nice two game.
Al: [laughter]
Micah: [laughing]
Al: I don't know what to say.
Al: It's currently on sale of minus 75% on Steam.
Al: So I can get it for £1.44 as basically free.
Aislinn: - I think it's worth it, that's super worth it.
Micah: Steam Deck verified, or what are we talking about?
Al: Let's have a look.
Al: We are Steam Deck verified.
Micah: Demo available?
Aislinn: - Hello.
Al: No demo.
Micah: Yeah, that's okay.
Al: But it's less than £2.
Micah: Let's-- you can't win them all.
Aislinn: - It's...
Micah: That's-- yeah, true, true.
Al: Bye the game!
Aislinn: - I think it's worth the purchase, I would say.
Aislinn: It's a very bite-sized game.
Aislinn: But otherwise, I started playing Snacko two weeks ago
Aislinn: and really, really enjoying that.
Aislinn: Still working through Persona 3 Reload,
Aislinn: that's nothing new, that's gonna be
Aislinn: for the rest of my life, I guess.
Micah: Oh, what a good game. Is this your first time playing Persona 3?
Aislinn: And...
Aislinn: I've never played Persona game period.
Micah: Oh, and I'm assuming when you say it's going to probably going to be the rest of my life you're enjoying it then.
Aislinn: So...
Aislinn: Oh yeah, for sure.
Aislinn: I'm just, I'm very much so taking my time with it.
Micah: I'm so happy to hear that.
Aislinn: So it's just a very long game.
Aislinn: So I think after I finished this game,
Micah: It is. Yeah.
Aislinn: I'm gonna take a step away from a Persona game,
Aislinn: like a couple other, like maybe.
Aislinn: like shorter games than, than dive into either, I guess, Persona 4 when the remake comes out,
Aislinn: or jump over to Persona 5 is what I'm thinking. But I also kind of want to check out metaphor,
Aislinn: some a little torn, but I'm not in any particular rush to play any of them after I finish Persona 3,
Aislinn: so I'll assess that when the time comes.
Al: Persona is the other the other game series that I'm like I feel like I would probably enjoy it
Al: But also like I don't want my entire life to be consumed by it
Micah: time. Yeah. I imagine that we are very much the same in how we put them, especially previous
Aislinn: Yeah, it's definitely a time-sync.
Aislinn: I don't know if it necessarily has to be a time-sync, but the way that I've been playing
Aislinn: it, I make it a time-sync and I enjoy it, so.
Micah: discussions about having stuff up while you're playing to be able to, you know, get the full
Micah: experience of whatever, like, I love nothing more than like sitting down with a persona
Aislinn: I, yeah.
Micah: him and trying to min max the the days, you know, because it's there's a like only so much
Micah: you can do during a day. If you miss something, then you miss it. Okay, that's good.
Aislinn: Yeah, I actually haven't been playing Persona with a guide.
Aislinn: Funny enough.
Aislinn: I've actually just been made a masking it on my own
Aislinn: and it's been fun.
Aislinn: I've been enjoying it.
Aislinn: But then otherwise I've obviously Pokemon Legend ZA.
Al: as if that's not enough games, as if that's not enough games.
Aislinn: That's no, we said that again.
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: [laughs]
Aislinn: I know I'm like cycling through so many different games
Aislinn: right now and I'm like, oh, but obviously Legend ZA.
Aislinn: We don't need to rehash that.
Aislinn: And then I did purchase finally for the first time.
Aislinn: New Leaf, Happy Home Paradise,
Micah: Oh, my God, all masterpieces.
Aislinn: and Detective Pikachu.
Aislinn: So at some point, I don't think we could close up.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Al: Is that the original detective Pikachu is that the original detective Pikachu or the the one for switch?
Aislinn: Sorry, I said that again, Al.
Micah: That is a valid question.
Aislinn: What was the question?
Aislinn: Sorry.
Aislinn: Oh, the original.
Al: Okay, cool. Just check him. Just check him.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Al: I have...
Aislinn: I feel like I can't play the new one
Micah: It's true.
Al: I don't know. I mean, have you watched the film? Like, that's the story. Except it's most of the
Al: story, but then also some of not the story.
Aislinn: Oh, true. Yeah, I forgot that was a thing. But regardless, you know what, it's fine.
Micah: I am so excited that you have, have you never played New Leaf or, well, you don't have
Al: Sorry, I over-conf- I over-conf- I over-conf-
Al: I just completed my own point there, I just completely, and the same sentence proved myself wrong.
Aislinn: But otherwise, that's it. Just cycling through a lot of different games.
Aislinn: No, my first, unfortunately, my first Animal Crossing game
Aislinn: was New Horizons.
Micah: Unfortunately, but
Micah: Yeah, it's great.
Aislinn: Well, that seems to be the consensus.
Aislinn: I really love it.
Aislinn: But that seems to be the general Animal Crossing community
Al: Look.
Micah: Mal, enjoy what you enjoy.
Aislinn: consensus.
Aislinn: So I'm like, I guess I'm supposed to say, unfortunately.
Al: Look, it don't do not do not feel the pressure, right? Like I did not like New Leaf. So, that's all.
Aislinn: But I guess that could tie me, you know.
Aislinn: Oh.
Micah: newly for new horizons or both oh, okay. I thought you didn't like new horizons
Al: No, I like New Horizons. I didn't like New Leaf. Wow, okay. Oh, okay. Oh, right. Okay, right.
Aislinn: OK.
Al: My...
Al: I definitely didn't like New Leaf. I didn't get into it. Like I spent a few hours
Al: unsan-related everything.
Al: I think about it. New Horizons, I put in like 100 hours and did I enjoy that game is a complicated answer, but it's more complicated than new leaf. I definitely didn't like new leaf. I maybe didn't like new horizons, but it's harder to say you don't like a game when you spent 100 hours playing it and covering it and like probably I like what 30 hours talking about it on podcasts.
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: [laughter]
Micah: [laughter]
Al: So I'm like I'm going to be buying the Switch 2 version when it comes out next year.
Al: So like I don't know what is what is like? How does one define whether one likes a game?
Aislinn: I have a great video for you Al for later. It's called I played Animal Crossing every day for five years.
Aislinn: I think you would enjoy that video. I'm going to just, I'm just going to drop it in a group chat and leave it at that.
Micah: [Laughter]
Al: Oh, no. Oh, goodness. How long is this gate? Oh, it's only 20 minutes. Oh,
Aislinn: Yeah, it's a quick video.
Al: that's easy. Easy. Goodness.
Micah: No, I think that New Horizons is a great game on its own.
Aislinn: I'm just going to leave it there.
Micah: I think that New Leaf is also a great game on its own.
Micah: I think that if you go into New Leaf expecting what you got out of New Horizons, you will
Micah: probably be disappointed, but I think if you go into it understanding that it's a completely
Micah: different game in a lot of ways than you will be able to enjoy it for what it is.
Aislinn: That's definitely how I'm approaching it. No, go ahead.
Micah: Yeah, I'm just going to say that New Leaf, I have immense memories tied to New Leaf.
Micah: I love that game, but I also do to the circumstances of the time really enjoyed New Horizons
Micah: because of the context of the time that it came out and everything, so I think it depends
Micah: on there's different ways that you can enjoy each of them, and I think that they're both
Micah: awesome.
Micah: Don't let anybody make you feel like you shouldn't, like you like the wrong Animal Crossing
Micah: game, that's a non-fair way to.
Al: Yeah, ignore Kevin ignore Kevin. He's he can he can he can like what he likes, but you can like what you like
Aislinn: that this this point feels very, very reminiscent about a conversation we
Aislinn: may or may not have just had oh it's great
Micah: [laughing]
Al: Is the best thing about recording episodes I have order, right? It's
Al: Speaking of recording episodes of order. I have also been playing snacko and
Al: listeners will know that's because we will have
Al: a couple of weeks by the time this episode comes out.
Aislinn: Something like that so that the math, the math is somewhere, I haven't marked down somewhere.
Al: But time is an illusion.
Al: So I've not put in a huge amount of time, maybe a bit 10 hours into that so far.
Al: But let's, I mean, listeners will know by now what my opinion is.
Al: So I think it's probably safe.
Al: I have to say it's a great game, love it.
Aislinn: You put it already, you put it in more time than I have, that's crazy.
Al: Yeah, but like that's not a lot of time for me for a week.
Al: Like I did for my tears of the kingdom run through.
Al: I did 150 hours and it was three weeks.
Al: I only played that game for three weeks.
Aislinn: Whoo, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Al: And I put it in 150 hours.
Micah: [laughing]
Al: Like if I get really, really into a game,
Al: It becomes...
Al: A problem.
Micah: - Oh, for sure, same.
Micah: I mean, my Legend ZA playtime hit 180 hours
Micah: and I took like three weeks off after it came out
Micah: 'cause I hyper fixated and burned myself out.
Al: And that's how you know you were shiny hunting because I finished the game after 80 hours
Aislinn: I... Oh...
Al: and there's nothing left to do in the game except that stupid battle the thousand battles
Micah: [laughter]
Al: and any shiny hunting.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: No, there's so much more.
Micah: You know, you got to get all the clothing items.
Micah: You got to get all the side quests.
Al: I think it's the shiny hunting. I think it's the fact that you're like, "I need to have
Micah: You got to do all the-- OK, well, all right.
Micah: Maybe I just play slow, Al.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: OK, all right, all right, all right, all right.
Micah: [laughter]
Al: sick, shiny Pokemon for my team."
Micah: The worst part is that it doesn't count a lot of that,
Al: Yes, however, however, your Switch is saving that time, so.
Micah: because a lot of it is resetting, so it doesn't show in the time.
Aislinn: Oh my god, yeah.
Micah: [laughter]
Al: So, so it does.
Al: And I have also, well, maybe I should talk about this now, I've been playing snackle on my,
Micah: I wish that it didn't.
Micah: [laughter]
Aislinn: I wish that it didn't.
Micah: I don't want to look at it.
Micah: Yeah. I have questions and I will save them for the later.
Al: know what is the name in this device? ROGXBox
Al: I think that's the official title for it. So that's the the Xbox handheld made by ROG which is ACES. So it's actually ACES ROG Xbox
Micah: What are they doing over there?
Al: LAX. I think it's its full official title. Look, look, this is the problem with the PC gaming market is they just don't know
Aislinn: I think I just call out the Aces Rogg.
Al: how to name things. But this is the thing, like this is the thing, like a calling
Micah: Xbox has been on one as far as naming stuff goes for a long time.
Al: at the Xbox ally. Would you be fine? But no, they had to like they had to because it's ROG making it
Al: who are owned by ACES. They had to like shovel that on the front as well. Oh, goodness. And also like
Micah: [laughs]
Al: calling it the Xbox ally X, there is a problem with calling it that because they had the the ACES ROG
Al: ally X before, which is basically the same name. It is merger to try and Google anything about this
Al: console. Well, yeah, so, so
Micah: [laughing]
Micah: At least you can play a snack on it though.
Al: Yeah, I haven't talked about this here, man, because it came out on the same day the Pokemon did.
Al: So I spent a month and a half playing nothing but Pokemon. And so now I've spent about week
Al: using it for snackle. And what I will say is great handheld. I love the ergonomics. Very nice and
Al: powerful. It plays everything I wanted to play. The Xbox Windows interface is terrible and I wish it
Al: it would die. (laughs)
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: And I am seriously considering installing Steam OS on this device.
Al: I can't get rid of Windows because obviously one of the big advantages of this is that you can install game pass games, which you can't do on Steam OS.
Al: So I'll need to install it in Jubit, which when was the last time I jubited a machine that that is an era of my life I thought I was past, but apparently I am not, I am back to, I'm not just boot jubiting a machine, I'm jubiting a console now, what is happening with my life.
Micah: [Laughter]
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: [laughing]
Al: But yeah, I think I would probably rather...
Al: play games that I can play on Steam OS, on Steam OS, because it is just better.
Al: It's like, you'll be sitting playing, you'll be sitting doing something on the Xbox interface,
Al: and then you click something, and it goes, "Oh, here's our Windows window."
Al: And you're like, "Why am I seeing a Windows window? Why are you opening the Windows settings for this?"
Micah: [laughs]
Al: This is a touch screen handheld console.
Al: I want to never see Windows get that away from me, give me the things in it.
Al: Never get that with Steam OS, unless you are doing something like, "So niche."
Al: You then go, "I want to see the desktop mode," but you have to explicitly go to that.
Al: When this handheld will just pop up random Windows from Windows.
Al: You're like, "Why am I seeing the Windows terminal right now? I should never be seeing the Windows terminal.
Al: Why am I seeing this? This is absolutely dreadful."
Micah: Yeah, that's kind of wild.
Aislinn: That is unusual.
Al: So, they need to work a lot on the software on this, but it is a great handheld.
Al: It's basically way too expensive. Do not buy this machine.
Micah: [laughter]
Al: But I was feeling the limits of the power of the Steam Deck and a few things,
Al: and so I wanted to get something, and this felt like a good one with its integration with Game Pass.
Micah: - Mm-hmm.
Al: And so now, I'm going to get rid of that integration with Game Pass, and it stalls, Steam OS.
Micah: [laughing]
Micah: - I'm sure that the price increase
Al: Yeah.
Micah: probably helped that decision, too, though.
Micah: - Mm-hmm.
Micah: [laughing]
Al: OK, I thought it was pre-COVID, but no, it's post-COVID. OK, sure, fine.
Aislinn: It's really been that long.
Al: I got it released basically so three nearly four years because it was five year old
Al: four years, I'm feeling the pain of it. I didn't have the all led version. So I was like
Al: feeling some of the, you know, pain aspects of it. So I knew I was going to be upgrading
Al: to something. And when they were like, oh, we're not going to have a new steam deck coming
Al: out, you know, in 2026, I was like, okay, let's try something else then. I could, I can
Al: foresee myself going to the steam deck too when it comes out just because of how nice the software
Al: and the idea of like manually installing it on my machine is just painful.
Micah: Oh, yeah, for sure. Yeah, I still got my launch steam deck too. I granted I've done a lot of like upgrading to like, you know,
Micah: hardware upgrades to it and whatever that like, you probably aren't doing normally, but I love it. I am a big proponent. Like my primary console consoles at this point are like the switch and the steam deck and this kind of kind of it.
Al: the Steam Deck completely changed how I game because I would buy things on the Switch if they
Al: were on the Switch and if they weren't on the Switch I wouldn't play games. You know it just like
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: Yeah, yeah.
Al: that's just how I was. What else now I have a handheld device that I can use to play basically any game
Micah: - Yep.
Al: and basically any game works on it and considering how many indie games and especially farming
Al: games release on Steam it's just it's a complete game changer and I do think having played
Al: now with a console that runs.
Al: I think most people should just have a steam deck, I don't think most people should
Micah: Right
Al: look at anything else because it has the perfect balance, I think of console versus PC.
Al: So the advantages of console is, uh, use.
Al: You know that if you buy a game, it's going to work on the thing that you buy it for, right?
Al: PC, you don't get that, right?
Al: Like, yeah, you're probably going to be fine, but like, who knows?
Al: Maybe there's something weird in one of your pieces of hardware that means it's not going
Al: to work.
Al: Whereas because it's like the baseline, the steam deck, you know that if it says on steam, it's
Al: going to work, it's going to work.
Al: And you know that people are testing against it.
Al: Every game test against the steam deck now, it just is the default and that is an incredible
Al: advantage, the bot.
Al: if you want to customize it and you want to do weird stuff to it, you can. But none of that is in your face. None of the weirdness is in your face. You have to go find the weirdness, right? The fact that I can go and install emulators on my steam deck.
Al: And I can integrate those emulated games specifically onto the steam interface. So I can have my Pokemon collection on the steam deck is incredible. But you don't have to, you don't have to do any of that.
Al: And so being able to the, the, the customizability of a PC combined with the reliability of a console makes the steam deck almost the perfect device.
Micah: Right. Yeah, I agree.
Aislinn: 1,000% agree. And that's why I'm, like, kind of intrigued to see the steam.
Aislinn: PC? What are we calling it? Whatever, we're calling it.
Al: Hmm the steam machine is what is called
Micah: Oh yeah. Okay.
Aislinn: Yeah. I mean, intrigued to see how that pans out.
Al: Yeah, no, I
Al: Those are gonna be really interesting and also like I'm really excited about the VR that they've got because I have a meta
Al: Quest and I hate that I'm reliant on meta
Al: For that and the fact that I could get a valve one like there is I've said to a couple of people like there is no company that is user
Al: focused, it does not exist, there is not a single company that can't.
Al: Heres about his users. But in the gaming world, if there is one company that is closest to that, I think it's clearly Valve at this point.
Al: And saying this as a Nintendo Super fan, I think Valve are clearly the closest to a user-focused company.
Al: And I would trust them over any other gaming company to provide me with hardware that I know is going to do what it's meant to do and not feel like they're going to suck every, every last pound out of me.
Al: Hello, Nintendo.
Micah: right. I agree. I think just generally there's a lot of really positive things about
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: And so, yeah.
Aislinn: I agree.
Micah: those business that like, you know, it's still business. So it's 100%, but like, you know,
Al: They're still an evil capitalist company, but.
Micah: just the fact that they have such a wild split for developers too and things like that,
Micah: you know, they're doing better than the majority, which is
Aislinn: Yes, we can give credit where credit is due, but also still give criticism
Micah: you know, totally. Yeah.
Al: Yeah, yeah. So my point is being able to replace my meta quest run by one of the most evil
Al: companies in the world of all time with a valve run one that we know is going to work
Al: with everything, right? You can, you know your games are going to work on it. It's an incredible
Al: idea. And the fact that you can also then plug in your dongle into your more powerful device
Al: and play more powerful games that can't quite run on that is an incredible idea.
Al: I absolutely love that. The question is how much it's going to be. And we don't know and that's going to be,
Micah: Right.
Aislinn: - Yeah.
Al: that's going to be the difference between oh this is a cool thing for hobbyists and this is game change.
Micah: Yep. Totally. I am very nervous about that, especially the like, you know, kind of
Micah: Hemingon hawing. They've done so far about like, it's going to be priced more in
Micah: the like PC range sort of like, I don't know, I don't know, but we'll see.
Al: It's probably important that they don't lose money on it because
Al: Steam will not make as much money on games as Nintendo or Sony etc. Will make and we want them to be able to continue making a good thing
Al: Because it is self-sufficient and making the money, but also if it costs too much money
Al: It's not nobody's gonna buy it
Aislinn: Yeah. Yeah.
Micah: Yeah. Right. Exactly.
Al: He says having bought an 800 pound the handheld console
Al: I'm not a good example of the the standard game buyer. Don't be like me
Aislinn: But also no hate if you are.
Al: But also don't be like me. So all right, that's what we've been up to
Al: Oh, yeah, I've also been played Pokemon, but we talked a lot about that both in this episode and in the other episode
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: We did.
Al: Oh, what?
Al: Okay, so explanation of this episode. We are gonna talk about
Al: games that I've come out
Al: and we're going to talk a lot about them and hopefully not too long, so that I can go to bed.
Al: So, we have three sections in this podcast. We have the update of the year, we have the early access game of the year, and we have the game of the year.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: [laughs]
Al: Also this year, I put, so I think last year I had a poll to the other hosts on the podcast, so we got some more input than just the people on the podcast.
Al: forecast this year, I extended that poll.
Al: just to go through this for the update of the year and the early access of the year, we will just officially nominate every one that came out because those lists are shorter, but I mean, the updates list is still quite long, but we'll get to that.
Al: Then the three of us for those two will take into
Al: a position for the game of the year, we will explicitly go through our individual lists of what our games of the year will be, like what our nominations will be, and then I will also add on stuff from the poll and then from those nominations because we're not just going to nominate every game because there's far too many, we will make a decision as to what the game of the year is.
Al: One of us will probably come out of this angry.
Al: And that's just life and
Al: I'm sure someone in this lack will be angry as well. But that is that is just life.
Aislinn: I'm flexible, so I'm ready to not be angry.
Micah: So goes. Yeah, have a-
Al: Well look let's wait until we actually know what we're nominating because the three of us don't know what we're not each of us is nominating for game of the year. We don't tell each other that and I have it explicitly hidden in the our show note so that we can't see until we actually talk about it. So it's going to be interesting, although I do have a very strong theory for what I think
Aislinn: I say now.
Al: the two finalists will be, but we'll we'll come to that. So first up, we have update of the year and just as a reminder, we started this category last year because we wanted to give starchy a win, so 2024 starchy 1.6 won the update of the year. And of course now we have to continue and actually give a second update of God a reward. So here we go. The nominations for update of the year are
Al: are Teranelle Heatwave.
Al: Mika and the Witch's Mountain into the mount, gone.
Al: I think it's gone.
Al: Luma Island Pirates.
Al: Particular Frozen Frontier.
Al: Song of the Prairie 1.2.
Al: Spirit tea, phantom friends.
Al: Ooh, Disney Dreamlight Valley Tales of Agriba.
Al: Disney Dreamlight Valley Wonderland, whimsy.
Al: Disney Dreamlight Valley the Storybook Vale.
Al: Disney Dreamlight Valley Whisplot.
Al: Wish Blossom Ranch.
Al: I wish Blossom Ranch.
Al: Palia Elderwood expansion, ever after falls 2.0, Dave the Diver, Ishiban's Holiday.
Al: Rust user time and cross vampire survivors, Hello Kitty friends furniture and frozen beaks.
Al: Hello Kitty sunshine celebration, Ritz of Patcho 1.3, Snacko 1.1, Everdream Valley Family Time,
Al: Lens Island 1.1 and Spiritie 2.0.
Aislinn: Woo!
Micah: You made it. I was a marathon.
Al: Let's go through the opinions from the poll first so we have that and we can discuss if there's ones that we think should be.
Al: So Kevin has said Mika, the Mika update, Mika became a full/finished game with this update.
Al: It's a great reason to go back and even fill heart heart and even fill hearted recommend and all for free.
Al: So Kevin said, Kat from the Slack also said Mika, didn't add any more comment.
Al: Nami said Disney dream up.
Al: some ranch. I liked talking about the Disney horses. Spencer said Disney Dream lot Valley
Al: Storybook Vale with no comment and Cody said Lens Island 1.1 with no comment. So what do you
Al: think? Have you got any particular exciting updates that you thought was the update of the year?
Aislinn: I personally thought it was pretty sick
Aislinn: to see Rusty's retirement and vampire survivors,
Aislinn: especially considering I now like both games very much so.
Aislinn: Also from this entire list in regards to the updates,
Aislinn: the only two games that I've played
Aislinn: is Rusty's retirement, it's not go to be fair.
Al: And you played Snackle not before the 1.1 update, so.
Aislinn: So, nope, that's a note that I made to myself.
Al: [laughing]
Micah: [laughs]
Aislinn: I was like, I don't even know
Aislinn: my experience because as far as I know,
Aislinn: this has been my experience.
Al: I think it's the one, I think it added cookie.
Aislinn: Yes.
Al: Yes, it was the culinary update, correct, yes, cool.
Al: I should have added that into the list, I will.
Al: Okay, so like, I don't, I mean, are you saying
Al: you don't have one currently?
Al: Or are you saying the rusty's retirement
Al: across vampire survivors is what you think should win?
Aislinn: I would say for Mike, for my experience, considering it's very limited, I would say
Aislinn: Rusty's, but I also recognize that Lens Island was a big one, so I can kind of give something
Aislinn: to that.
Aislinn: I don't know, because obviously I've never played Disney Dream like Validate Valley.
Aislinn: I don't know if I would say any of them could be updated a year, I only say that because
Aislinn: I feel like that game is always getting updates, so it's like, what can we consider
Aislinn: the year if that game is always being updated?
Al: I think I would mostly agree with you there. I think that the, I think there is an argument,
Al: I'm not, I'm not making this argument, but I think there is an argument for Wish Blossom Ranch,
Al: adding the horses, like I do feel like that feels like a significant update. I agree generally
Al: that I don't think any other Disney Dreamlight Valley update ever is going to entice people to come
Al: and play the game with they haven't already been enticed to do it, any more than the base game would.
Al: and nor do I think that someone who's like fallen out of the game and they haven't
Al: played it for the last year is going to look at any of them and go oh it's
Al: time to go back in except maybe wish blossom ranch because adding in the
Al: horses does feel like a significant thing I don't think it it's not my game it's
Al: not my update of the year I just like like I think if any of them have an
Aislinn: that's fair, that's fair. I'll also give credit to Mika, but the only criticism I have
Al: argument I think that would be the one that has a
Aislinn: to is that I understand it's an indeed studio indie game, everything, but the fact that
Aislinn: it needed an update to feel like a full game is unusual to me. I don't know if it's bad,
Aislinn: I don't know if it's good. It's just unusual to me, but I am glad that it like fixed the
Aislinn: game significantly, so I'd like, I'm very happy to hear that.
Al: Have you played, have neither of you played me, alright?
Micah: I could totally mesh with that.
Micah: I played it when it came out, because I backed it on Kickstarter.
Micah: Uh, but I have not played it.
Al: Yeah, yeah. No, that's fair. So I love Becca, right? Like it was, it was one of my favorite
Micah: So take that for what it's worth.
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: games of last year. And the update I do think was a, I think I would probably say this is my update
Al: of the year. I think that their decision to release some of the features of the game in updates
Al: did feel a little bit not great, but those updates were in the
Al: previous update that came out last year, not in this one. Right. I think the part, the first update,
Al: which I can't remember the name of, was the one that felt to me like it should have been the
Al: first release. The into the month mount gone added stuff that I know Kevin said it makes it feel
Al: like a fill game. I think it felt like a fill game after the first update. I think the second update
Al: felt like, ooh, some more stuff rather than, okay, now it's a, now it's a fill game, you know.
Al: So that would be my, I think the mica should win this because I think that update is great.
Al: The game was great before it. I think if this hadn't come, it wouldn't have felt
Al: unfinished personally. I suspect Kevin is merging those two updates together because they did
Al: come out like only a couple of months apart. And I think originally the where it just meant to be
Al: one update, but they came out as two updates. But I think it was.
Al: A good update. I did like dungeons into the game, which didn't feel like they needed to be there
Al: in the first place, but where I've fun extra challenge afterwards. And as Kevin says, it
Al: it was free update as well. So like there's only so much you can complain about a free update.
Aislinn: Right. I am happy to give it a win. It's so hard for me to speak on it because I have not
Aislinn: really any strong opinions about any of these. A note that I did make though is that the
Aislinn: day of the diver update, I heard there was a lot of hype about it. I don't...
Al: If I'm not, if I'm not wrong, I feel like there was hype about it, but ended up being disappointing this one in particular as you, it's your band's holiday correct me from wrong. I didn't play it. She bands holiday and also it was a paid DLC.
Al: Um, I, I don't know, did Micah, did you play it?
Aislinn: Oh yeah, that's right. Yeah. Yeah. I did write that down yet.
Micah: I did not. I didn't actually even know that it existed until I was looking over the like
Al: You've played, you've played Dave the Diver though, right?
Micah: show notes for this. And I wrote, I have, yeah. And I wrote in my nominations for update.
Al: Yeah.
Micah: I wrote Snacco, because that I think, and I think I'll get to that more later for why
Micah: I voted Snacco for update of the year, but I also wrote, yeah, because the Dave the Diver
Micah: across over rules.
Micah: Because I like the idea of that, but that's the extent of it.
Micah: Uh, each bond as a character in the Yakuza franchise is one of my favorites.
Micah: He's just, he's incredible.
Micah: So I'm, I'm very interested to go back to David.
Micah: I would be because of that, but I don't know if it's enough to like, you know, for me to call
Micah: it updated the especially having that played it, but also just like a collab being
Micah: you know, like updated the year, I don't know if that, that is, is valid for me.
Micah: A valid enough for me to, to call it updated the
Al: I think I, yeah, I agree with it. I don't think I would, I would strongly fight against the age of
Al: anxiety being update of the year for two reasons. One, um, it's, it's, it's a time limited
Al: paid DLC, which I really don't like just as a concept, right? That is really not great. Um,
Al: and to having a look at the reviews on Steam, they are very mixed on this. And most people
Al: saying it's really short. Why is this paid compared to the other
Al: ones like I think the the Godzilla DLC which was a free DLC but still time limited which I
Al: still don't like it being time limited. There's not great but at least it was free. That was pretty
Al: short as well but it felt fun and it felt good. If I had paid how much is the H. Ben's Holiday one?
Al: Six pounds. If I had paid six pounds for the Godzilla DLC I would not have been happy but having it free I
Al: I think was really good.
Al: And because of the amount it was, it felt like a fun addition to the story, but from why I can see this seems to be shorter than that and paid, which doesn't feel good.
Micah: Sure
Micah: Yeah, hey, it makes me wonder what the like what went on behind the scenes to make it so different and it's I was would assume some sort of rights negotiation
Al: Yeah. Oh, yeah. It's for sure rights. They're, but, but all of their DLCs, I think are time limited.
Micah: That has like you know
Micah: Oh, I mean as far as like price goes and stuff, you know like charging for it
Aislinn: Oh, interesting.
Al: Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Why was this one? Why was this one paid, but why was the dredge in Godzilla one's free? Yeah. Yeah. Weird.
Micah: Right like did they have to pay more for the rights to to each bond and did they you know, which is funny to think about considering that Godzilla is like
Al: - Yeah.
Micah: You know, but who knows maybe Godzilla is kind of like
Micah: What is it Winnie the poo that's like, you know, he can anybody can make whatever out of it?
Al: So I think they were doing the Godzilla one for free, because I think it was, they viewed it as advertising, because it was a round, it was just after Godzilla minus one came out.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: I see. Yeah.
Al: So I think it was like, no, we want people to go and see our film, please.
Aislinn: Yeah, I, well, I guess to to circle back to Snacko, I'm curious to hear your thoughts,
Aislinn: Michael, in regards to like, why you would nominate this the update? Or yeah,
Micah: And I
Micah: Guess what I'll say is you know what it's there will be plenty of discussion, so I'm just gonna I'm just gonna spit it out now, but I
Micah: Think snacko is great
Micah: I did not nominate it for game of the year and this is my kind of compromise is that
Micah: Giving it update of the year is sort of my like compromise for not nominating it for game of the year
Aislinn: Okay.
Al: I don't... I would not want to give it update of the year just now in exchange for not giving
Micah: Also, I didn't play a lot.
Micah: I'm not a fan of these. So...
Al: it game of the year later, right? Like I think those conversations need to be separate.
Al: I mean, I guess we could say let's table the discussion for now. Do the rest of the
Micah: What I will say is that because I didn't play a lot of these updates, I was kind of picking
Al: episode and come back depending on what happens out of the game of the year?
Micah: and choosing what I have played and what I think I could reasonably, you know, I have
Micah: played a lot of, like I played a lot of Hellkitty Island event, but like it's not, I didn't
Micah: play a lot of updates. So I don't.
Micah: I don't really know, you know, like, uh, haven't played any of the
Micah: paleo update. It haven't touched dreamlight Valley in a very long time.
Micah: So as far as updates go, I am very, you know, snacko was kind of my
Micah: compromise for myself as like, I love that game. And I wish that I had, you
Micah: know, more to be able to like place it in in game of the year, but I still
Micah: love that game. And that's why I was, I kind of put it there. I am not very, I
Micah: have very strong feelings about update of the year. So I am willing to
Aislinn: [laughs]
Micah: flex a lot on this one. So, you know, I wouldn't take this as like, I'm
Micah: arguing for snacko to be culinary update to be game of the year or
Al: Yeah, yeah, no, no, that's fair.
Micah: updated the year. It's just in the context of what I have played or have not
Aislinn: - Yeah, I mean, I got it.
Al: So there's one there's one more suggestion that I haven't said that I was in my list of
Al: these are the things I'm going to suggest for winning update of the year. My first one was Mika.
Micah: Mm-hmm
Al: I wasn't going to suggest 1.1.1 purely because I might discuss it later on in the episode,
Micah: [laughter]
Al: but also because it is an update that focuses on cooking, which is never my
Al: Never a thing that I enjoy in farming games.
Micah: and see I do so but that's okay that's okay we can we'll get there
Al: But that's fair, but also I do obviously once and I go to win something, but the other thing I was going to suggest is nothing wins update of the year, because I have not been other than Mika, I've not been like super excited by any of the updates this year.
Micah: [laughter]
Al: Phil stop, like nothing, I, I, it feels like it's a week.
Aislinn: I, yeah.
Al: You're for updates for farming.
Aislinn: For-for additional context, a lot of the notes that I took on every game was...
Aislinn: Seems like I literally copied and pasted it.
Aislinn: Seems like a good free update.
Aislinn: Seems like a standard free update.
Aislinn: Not interested in the game, but seems like a good free update seems like a good paid update.
Aislinn: That's-I wrote a lot of that for a lot of these updates.
Aislinn: I was just like, this seems pretty stan-
Aislinn: Standard. This seems pretty good. That's it!
Al: I also hate the idea of giving it to nothing,
Al: but also like that is an argument for it.
Micah: I need to, but I also don't love the idea of like, I'm with Hazel and on that, like, I don't love the idea of it, I will, you know, I will hand it to, to Mika if it goes that route, but like, because it is, you know, a great game, you know, they, that, that team worked very hard on this, I love a lot of stuff that they've made, but I, I do feel a little bit weird about giving it to something that like the update.
Micah: is what made the game finished, you know, kind of, but that's also coming from the context of like not having actually played set up date. So I, I, I'm going off of what other people are saying the update did for the game rather than my own experience of it. So.
Aislinn: I'm not saying this is a direct comparison.
Aislinn: So take this with a green assault, but the context of giving Mika the update of the year in my
Aislinn: head right now, there's a slight comparison happening where it's like, oh, this update helped
Aislinn: to finish this game is like giving Pokemon Legends ZA switch to version update of the year,
Aislinn: because they made it better or start out Legends ZA, sorry, Scarlett and Violet updated the year.
Aislinn: because they finally fixed the graphics relatively speaking in this for the switch too.
Micah: Yeah. And again, I don't know.
Al: So, as the only player, a person who has actually played the entire game before the update
Aislinn: So again, not a direct comparison, but just something that I just thought about.
Al: and then played the update afterwards, that's not a fair comparison at all.
Aislinn: Okay, that's fair.
Al: I think it's, and as I said, I think it's totally fair to make an argument about the first
Al: Mika update.
Al: I do think that is a fair argument.
Al: I think that should have been the 1.0, and it's the same sort of argument that I've made
Al: about Carl Island one point.
Al: One that should be the one point. Oh, but I think that into the
Al: mon gone mountain gone. I just to keep saying it the wrong way. I'm
Micah: [laughing]
Al: sure I think at one point, I think at one point, the rotor is
Al: Mont rather than mount because they're, I think they're Italian. So it
Micah: and it changed forever. I think they're Spanish. I think they're from Spain, yeah.
Al: was a translation issue is a Spanish not Italian. My bad, that's a
Al: big mistake to make. I.
Micah: Uh, you know, I would be a fairer comparison to, because just contextually from what I'm
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: hearing and what, you know, people said, like, it would be a fairer comparison to, say,
Micah: in the same vein as how
Micah: animal crossing, new horizons, got a lot of updates that added stuff to it that made it feel like everybody kind of argued that the game felt more finished once they had all the updates in it, but they should have included them in the final release anyways, is that kind of there's that well, you know, I don't necessarily agree with this because I think that like, you know, I think it's an unfair way to look at it, especially in the context of,
Micah: the time, you know, the what was happening with games at the time, right.
Al: Yeah, like yeah, exactly like new horizons would not have been what it was if it hadn't released when it did
Al: And so saying like it should have had the next two years worth of updates included when it came out is such a bizarre
Al: Argument because it doesn't mean anything you're talking about something that doesn't exist and never would have existed
Micah: I think the argument was that it was mechanics that felt like they were patched in after the fact that weren't finished in time for releases what the like the mentality of
Al: Yeah, maybe, but that's also like, I don't think it's fair to say like, that is something
Al: that like, whoa, that is not an unusual thing nowadays, and I'm not saying that to
Al: mean that like, games should come out broken and fix themselves, but like, do people think
Micah: -Mm-hmm.
Al: that Fortnite should have been released as it currently is?
Micah: [laughs]
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: You know, like that sort of comparison, like a game releasing and then having updates,
Micah: -Sure.
Al: feels like such a '90s view on things.
Micah: -Yeah, I think that there are some instances where, like,
Micah: the corporate hands get in the way of whether or not
Micah: something is released, like, ready for release,
Al: Yeah. Fair.
Micah: on the developer side.
Micah: And I can see where that is, you know,
Micah: and that I think tends to be more
Micah: a complaint about, like, the corporation that
Micah: is in control of that, rather than the developers themselves.
Micah: And I can understand that frustration.
Micah: I say this fully as a, like, massive enjoyer of New Horizons,
Micah: one of my, you know, favorite Switch era games.
Micah: I loved it, and I still love it.
Micah: I still play it fairly regularly.
Micah: But I can't understand where I think, again, like,
Micah: we don't know all the behind-the-scenes,
Micah: all the inner workings, everything that's going on.
Micah: So we don't know what was planned for release
Micah: and what wasn't, I think, that, like, using it
Micah: as a comparison for things that existed previously
Micah: in Animal Crossing games that didn't make it
Micah: until it was an opportunity.
Micah: I think it's a great update later on is a little bit more understandable as a like...
Al: I get your part. Okay. I get your point. The comparison is more fair. I just disagree with the
Al: starting point of that animal crossing your horizon should have released with
Al: all everything that it currently has in the game. Like, I just, I just disagree with that
Micah: Sure. Sure. Right.
Al: feels stop. And so therefore, as a comparison, it's fair, but it doesn't argue against this update
Al: being the update of the year, because I don't think I would say it's like, I would say multiple
Al: of the, I would say the farming update, for example, of, I can't even remember.
Al: One that one was, but the one that I did farming into the, into Animal Crossing, I could argue would be the update of that year.
Micah: Mm-hmm.
Al: Like I think that is, that was a good update and I like, does it make the original game any less than it was?
Al: Like the, the fundamental problems that some people have with Animal Crossing, your horizons were never fixed.
Micah: - Right.
Al: And so if, if it had better conversations with and felt like the villagers were more real people at the beginning,
Al: complained about the other things that were added, well, you know, obviously some people would because there's always going to be someone to complain, but like, it would feel, it would feel less fair to argue about those things because these are just new things coming into the game.
Micah: I mean, yeah, everybody's gonna complain about something eventually, but...
Al: We, we got two years worth of updates for that game and then people complained when they didn't add more, you know, like, I, I think.
Micah: Yeah Oh, well totally, absolutely I and as someone who is very laid back about a lot of this stuff like I am very much like taken as it comes
Aislinn: [laughs]
Micah: I do whatever they decide they want to do even at the you know
Micah: At the behest of like the corporation who's got their hands in it and is dictating how it goes
Micah: I'm still pretty laid back about a lot of stuff.
Micah: But I can see we're Animal Crossing New Horizons, some of the things like as an example, the museum not having a top floor and it just goes to know where until they, you know, patching what was supposed to be there, things like that where there are like little things where you can see they probably ran out of time on some of this stuff.
Al: But how much of that is running out of time and how much of that is
Micah: I mean, for some of that stuff, I can agree with, but for things.
Micah: That feel much more egregious like a top floor that goes nowhere. I think it's a little less like, you know, and maybe it was. Maybe it was. I don't know, but
Al: I don't know. I like, I actually, I thought that was one of the examples of like, oh, there's
Al: cli, like when they fit released the first update, you go back and you look at things differently,
Al: and you're like, oh, this clearly going to be something here in the museum. We were all talking
Micah: Sure. Yeah.
Al: about that. There's clearly going to be something in the museum. We didn't know what it would be,
Al: but we was clearly going to be something.
Micah: Right. Yeah. And I think especially because the game didn't like, you know, adding that stuff
Micah: didn't change the like end game for anybody. It didn't change like the the the full experience of
Micah: of the game. I think that that's understandable too and changes, you know, the argument about like
Micah: what I'm quote unfinished. I think and again, I think that it's totally reasonable that they're to
Micah: expect that there are things just like with Pokemon Scarlet and Violet like probably a lot of stuff
Micah: behind the scenes that included the Switch 2 development cycle and the and how the pandemic impacted
Micah: that and how the Pokemon merch machine needs to keep moving and, but you know, that that probably
Micah: hindered a lot of what happened behind the scenes.
Micah: And so I think it's fair to say that, like, expect that probably there are things that they just ran out of time on and I think there are certainly things that felt like that in Animal Crossing New Horizons, but to say that it's a like detriment to the game is unfair for sure, but you know, I think if it's if it's something that does wind up being this is what completes the game, this is what makes the game complete and it's you know.
Micah: Two years or whatever after the release, then I think it there's a little bit more of like a question about like for me at least if like, okay, well, does that, does that, you know, does that make it the the like definitive experience then or is the like pre update the defeat, you know, I don't know, but again, this is also coming from someone who has not played this specific me go update I'm just trying to get a little bit more understanding of how.
Micah: Hopefully the update impacts the how the game turned out after the fact, sorry, it's going to go ahead.
Aislinn: Yeah, that was going to be my question.
Aislinn: No, that was pretty much exactly my question.
Aislinn: I was like, this update with Mika, how did it affect the end game at all?
Al: No, no, it was it's it's not something you realistically could have done before and game
Micah: Okay, well, yeah, then that that changes it for sure
Aislinn: So then in that case, there's a lot of winded conversations.
Al: It's definitely postgame stuff
Aislinn: I think then that I'm happy to give it to Mika.
Al: Again the the first update the first update absolutely is and should have been the 1.0 release
Al: I well it was the 1.0 release
Al: They've released it in early access for some reason and then release two updates within three months and suddenly it wasn't in early access
Al: I will never understand.
Al: And that decision they should have just released the first update as the 1.0 that's when you release it and then mount gone as an update later on I think should have been the decision I don't know why they made the decision they made.
Al: But be that as it made that update added a bunch of stuff that did change how you play the game as you go through and I think should have been the first version.
Al: But the said the the the manga on is basically post game dungeons which.
Al: The other the other thing to say is that I think there is as Kevin says in his his comment it's a great reason to go back and I do think there is something to do that and it's a hard balance to make.
Al: I do think that sometimes updates to games are a good reason to go back in. Would I have gone back to stardew last year without 1.6 coming out probably not some people do but I probably wouldn't have.
Micah: Sure. I agree.
Al: But I went back and spent another 150 hours in that game.
Micah: Yeah. [laughs]
Al: Because that update came out.
Al: It was the first time I perfected the game.
Al: The first time I did everything in the game.
Al: So, like, it's a hard balance to make.
Al: I do think the start you probably has the right balance of any game of doing it.
Al: Disney Dreamlight Valley has completely the wrong direction.
Al: Right?
Al: They have really too many updates with too little content.
Al: You're like, oh, here's another update.
Al: It's got two new characters.
Al: Cool.
Micah: [laughing]
Al: All right, what am I going to do?
Al: I'm going to go back next year to the jungle.
Al: I can't remember the jungle update, I can't remember what it's called.
Al: Am I going to go back and play that? Maybe? Maybe it's been long enough now,
Al: but had I completed the game and then three months later, the Godzilla one came out,
Al: Would I go back just to play the game?
Al: I'm going to contradict myself here because it was a small update. It just added a bunch of postgame dungeons and nothing else, but also that game isn't a massive game in and of itself. Right? Like you can complete that game in about 10 hours I think.
Al: It just adds a couple more hours into an already great game and it probably came about the right sort of time that hadn't completely forgotten.
Al: about the game and if it came out now, would I go back?
Aislinn: I think with that with that context in mind
Aislinn: of like, this is not necessarily a strict criteria
Aislinn: but keeping cutting in the back of our heads
Aislinn: with updates or trying to decide on the update of the year.
Aislinn: Knowing or yeah, keeping and keeping the context of
Aislinn: would I go back to this game and either replay the game
Aislinn: or sink in however many more hours into the game.
Aislinn: I think that's a general criteria
Aislinn: that's good to kind of keep in mind
Aislinn: with the update of the year?
Aislinn: And from what it sounds like with Snacko, it's hard for me to say, because I didn't play it before, but for what it sounds like a Snacko, I think while cooking can be really cool for people, I don't know if that's necessarily an update that would bring people back to the game.
Aislinn: The DLC for Day the Diver, I don't know if that's something that would bring people back to the game. Lens Island? I don't know either. Horses maybe?
Al: Again, I played Lens Island after the 1.0 came out, so I can't, I'm not even sure what was in the 1.1 update because I, yeah, I played it. I didn't play it. Pre 1.1.
Al: Oh, that was a community feedback update.
Aislinn: Right, I mean, it's great that they are very involved with their community. That's a really awesome
Al: It, I don't, yeah, yeah, I know it was like there was camera settings and chunk loading settings and a sorting button for storage items.
Micah: [laughing]
Al: I don't, they added a bunch of stuff.
Al: Stuff that is good, but also I, if we're going to go back to the like argument of what should be in a 1.0, a lot of these things are like, you can now move items, whereas previously you had to delete and recreate them.
Micah: Mmm, I'd see.
Micah: Yeah...
Aislinn: Yeah, I feel that sentiment. I feel that sentiment as well. Whatever that sound is, I get it. I agree.
Al: I don't think it should be lines island 1.1, and I agree with you, I don't think it should be snack a 1.1 because, yeah, cooking is not.
Al: what I want to go back and take aim for.
Aislinn: It might be for some people, but I feel like for me, I'm the same way.
Micah: I think also especially after so soon after.
Micah: Maybe that it's it's not it doesn't really it who knows maybe like people are coming coming back to it because of the cooking
Micah: But like you probably if you're playing snack, oh, you probably maybe you still playing it or like it's still pretty fresh to you
Micah: So there's not really much of a need to come back, but I don't know I am very prepared to
Micah: default to what the consensus is
Micah: for update of the year.
Al: Well, and we did have two people on the pole saying Mika and nothing else got to two votes so
Micah: Just to clarify.
Micah: I did hear it quite a bit.
Micah: Did Disney dream live on it?
Micah: Valley not have to.
Al: It had for two different updates and we are we are not doing
Micah: I thought I'd heard it at you, but.
Micah: Oh, got it.
Al: Rank choice voting here. Sorry
Al: Okay, I mean it sounds like we're giving it sounds like nobody's really got an argument against it being Mika anymore
Micah: Yeah.
Aislinn: enough I am pretty I feel comfortable about that and after tube if it helps too
Micah: - No.
Micah: I had questions, you answered them,
Aislinn: after like looking through all of these and everything considering I haven't
Aislinn: played a lot of these games Mika was a game that shot up and like oh I would
Aislinn: like to play the student rather than later this update also added to me
Aislinn: wanted to check out the game more so
Al: I think Chibi Games might be the first people to win two of the years from our podcast,
Al: because they of course won 2020 with Summer in Mara. So there we go, a first.
Micah: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Al: All right, let's go slightly faster for this next section, because we've only got 45 minutes left
Al: before Mike needs to leave. Early access of the year. So this was also added last year,
Al: and we gave it last year to fields of mystery. I've only, I've
Al: limited it to games that have released in early access this year. So we're not including games that
Al: were released in early access before and are still in early access. They can get another shot
Al: at a game when they released a 1.0. So the nominations list are Abyss, New Dawn, Artisan Story,
Al: Chronomon, Dolok Town, Galactic Getaway, Grimshire, Honeymancer, Hotel Galactic, Out and
Al: About, Seeds of Calamity, Starbirds, Superforming By, Tales of Sake You, Voyages of Nara.
Al: Our opinions from the poll are Kevin says, "Despite clearly lacking a lot, including a reason to keep
Al: playing, Starbirds works technically well, has a delightful art style and has lots of potential."
Al: And then everyone else said nothing, except Cat gave a reason why they were saying nothing.
Micah: [laughing]
Al: I'm basically abstaining from this because I only have anti-votes against Tales of Sake You,
Al: and ran so poorly my perfectly good PC could barely.
Al: And hotel galactic sounded like a nightmare launch.
Al: No early access really grabbed me this year.
Aislinn: I agree with those two anti-votes. Obviously haven't played either of those, but only early
Al: Disguss!
Aislinn: access game out of this list that I played, and I only played the demo was to look down.
Aislinn: But I also heard about the poor. I read about the poor reception.
Aislinn: Well, in the sense of the bug-iness of Tales of Sake-U and Hotel Galaxy, go Galactic. Oh, no, no, no.
Al: I wanted to get a pre-reception, I missed that.
Al: Oh, sorry, I thought you meant doll looked down, doll looked down.
Al: Doll looked down has overwhelmingly positive reviews.
Aislinn: That's all.
Al: It has a 90% on Steam DB.
Aislinn: Yes, Grimshire does as well.
Al: I really should, I really should play this game.
Al: I really should. Maybe I'll wait to 1.0.
Aislinn: I really enjoyed it.
Aislinn: I will say I only played the demo, really enjoyed it.
Al: I will say I disagree with Kevin. I don't want, I don't want Starbucks to win it.
Al: Like, yes, it looks great.
Al: And it has a lot of potential, but that's all it has.
Al: It has potential.
Al: It has a core gameplay loop that you spend five minutes playing and go,
Al: cool, why? And that's, that's it.
Micah: - Mm-hmm.
Al: And it's, it's cool arts, it's delightful art style, while delightful is
Al: just the same art style as Kurtzka's that uses in their videos, which is why
Al: they've done it, right? But like, it's not like it's new and inventive.
Al: It's just what they have in their videos that they've then put in a game.
Aislinn: Yeah, I mean I marked it down as a game that I'm not interested in so take that as you will
Micah: [laughter]
Al: I would be happy with giving it to Dool-Octone based on
Al: Aslan having played it and enjoyed it and it having very good reviews
Al: and I actively don't want to give it to anything else.
Micah: - I mean the only things that I really thought were like interesting and like a super
Al: Unless mica can convince us of something else.
Micah: farming boy has a really cool art style and like I like the concept of the you know switching
Micah: up the the farming genre to be a little bit more like active and combo-based and stuff.
Micah: And it's not something that...
Micah: I think it's super, like, life-changing to me, you know?
Micah: I really love games that do things that, like, out and about did as far as, like, forging goes and real-world identifiers and stuff like that.
Micah: Also, still stuff that has kind of been done before, but I think in the package that it's in...
Micah: It's a little more interesting and enticing.
Micah: I have not played it, and I will say that, oh, this is my, you know, my one chance to gripe about early access, very briefly, if you are releasing an early access game, and it's not done yet, maybe put out a demo, because it's hard to justify buying into a game that is incomplete, and you don't really know what you're getting out of it.
Micah: So, you know, I don't know, I think everything should have demos, but I also think that early access should, for sure, have demos, because I think you're...
Al: that's fair yeah I think that is a very fair point and I do think there is
Al: possibly an argument that we shouldn't be giving an early access award I mean
Al: I did it last year because I really wanted to give fields of mystery
Al: award and award let's be honest absolutely absolutely and I'm so excited for
Micah: [laughs]
Aislinn: Which deservedly deserved it?
Al: 1.0, which presumably is coming out next year. I don't think they've
Al: said anything, but goodness. I, yeah, it's difficult. There's always going to be issues
Micah: I just think that if you're right, and I think, oh, sorry, go ahead.
Al: with early access games and the question, you know, you go for
Micah: I was just going to say that I think an easy way to justify, you know, there's, there
Micah: is justification for early access for, you know, indie studios that it's generating income
Micah: well.
Micah: There's still working on the game and so on.
Micah: I think, you know, if, if you're going to do that, though, putting out a demo so that people
Micah: for it, because there's been so many games over the years that like, maybe I'm just
Micah: jaded at this point that I'm like, I wish that I had known a little bit more about what
Micah: this game was going to feel like before I bought into the early access.
Micah: And then the, by the time the game releases at 1.0, I don't really care about it as much
Micah: and I don't really, you know, it's, it's too late.
Micah: I already own it, you know, like, I think it, I think having a demo is, is great.
Micah: I'm not going to play dole at town, but I, I'm, I'm not ready yet to, to throw $15 at something
Micah: that I don't know, really how it's going to play or what it's, you know, going to wind
Micah: up being.
Micah: So, but the art style looks awesome.
Micah: I love the, the pixel art that they did for it.
Micah: It's very like unique looking pixel art, lots of like jagged edges and sharp, like the,
Micah: the sharp grass and sharp angles and stuff.
Micah: I think it's very good.
Micah: But yeah, I don't know beyond that.
Aislinn: I like the post-apocalyptic world, too.
Aislinn: I think how I'm looking at this, again, to be fair,
Aislinn: I didn't play the early axes.
Aislinn: I've only played the demo, so I'm coming from that context.
Aislinn: But I think, out of all the games on this list,
Aislinn: in regards to just purely something that looks
Aislinn: like it has some future promise, I think
Aislinn: Deloque Town caught my interest the most.
Aislinn: Ronomon, seem very interesting.
Aislinn: Because you can play it on a smart watch apparently.
Aislinn: So that also is very intriguing.
Aislinn: But I don't know, I have to relook at it.
Aislinn: But I also want to take into consideration when picking early access of the year is how did people receive it as well.
Aislinn: Because like, tails of sake, you looks very interesting to me.
Aislinn: But if it's so buggy, then I don't think it should be winning early access of the year.
Aislinn: Because it's like, why is it out then?
Aislinn: It should be a consistent, promising
Aislinn: look into what the full game is going to be. Doesn't have to be perfect, but...
Micah: When I was looking through this, yeah. No, I totally agree. When I was looking through this
Micah: list, because a lot of these I hadn't really heard of too. I had looked at, you know, I wrote
Micah: down the ones that I thought looked cool and interesting to me. And Tales of Sekhi was definitely
Micah: in there, but I guess I didn't realize that it was running as poorly as it was. I mean, it's got
Micah: like pretty positive reviews on Steam, but I, you know,
Micah: that's also the, like, the, some of the woes of early access is like the optimization is not there. The, you know, I don't know. It's, it's in a lot of ways,
Micah: probably not ready for, uh, consumer eyes, but I.
Al: I think this is the thing is like an early access for a game to win early access. It doesn't it doesn't need to be perfect because it's obviously is an early access. It will have missing things.
Al: I think I agree in that it needs to run well.
Aislinn: At least half with you soon.
Al: I think I think I think run well on a half decent computer. I think it I think that's a fair thing. It needs to be playable.
Micah: Yeah, totally.
Al: I also think that people's reaction to it is an important part.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: There are a few others that have very positive, but there's only two that have overwhelmingly.
Al: And I guess part of the problem is like we're competing massively different games, right? There's always the issue with games of the year, and especially with early access because we're talking about things that could be almost finished with things that are like barely started, right?
Al: Oh, goodness. Which which of these are your most exciting?
Aislinn: I'm happy to give it to D'Loctown.
Aislinn: D'Loctown.
Micah: I mean, I do. I do like the concept of Cronomon for sure. Again, no demo, so I wasn't
Micah: really ready to commit to it, but I like the idea of crossing boundaries for tech and stuff
Micah: the same way that like Rusty's retirement did and in creating a genre of like desktop
Micah: functioning games, but again, I haven't played it so I can't really, you know, I think
Aislinn: [laughter]
Micah: a dull look down looks interesting. Is it the most like interesting of these to me? Not
Micah: necessarily, but also, you know, it's slim pickings for me. I hate to say two times in a row,
Al: No, that's fair
Micah: like I'm willing to default to others opinions, but I, you know, it's hard not to when
Al: I think if I look at all of these games and I think I can only play one of them, I think it's
Al: going to do a lot of time. There's quite a few games of these that I do want to play at some point,
Micah: Yeah, and I'm okay with that.
Micah: It's definitely.
Al: but it does seem to be that. It looks like it runs well. It looks like people like it. And also,
Al: I just love the look of it. I like what it's doing. I like its differences, but also how it's similar.
Micah: Yeah, totally.
Al: I like the, there's something really fun about the kind of like 2D spirit fairter style farm.
Al: I'm really excited to play in another game. Not many games do it. It's funny that we're talking about
Al: spirit fairter again. Listeners won't know that we've talked about it already, but we talk about it in
Al: the greenhouse episode. I'm not about to talk about it again, but yeah, I'm good with it being
Micah: Yeah, I can comfortably accept that.
Aislinn: Woo! (laughs)
Al: Whoo, congratulations to all of the uptown early access game of the year 2025
Micah: Huge. Yeah.
Al: So we're gonna come into game of the year. I wanted to have a quick discussion about how people feel
Al: Without talking about specifics how they feel the year compares to previous years
Al: We have more more games released this year than any other game year in this genre
Al: But does it feel like that's good or bad?
Al: I'm like is there other things that you're like these are amazing games or does it feel?
Al: Like you've just are you farming game doubt etc etc. Cool. It's on first
Aislinn: Yes. I'm farming game doubt. That's my one sentence. I, it's, it's a great year if you love farming
Micah: [laughs]
Aislinn: games. If you are farming game doubt, it is very overwhelming.
Al: So are you farming gained out because there are so many?
Al: So is it a great year if you're like farming games or is it too much?
Aislinn: I think it's too much. For me, it's too much. I don't know. There are some strong contenders
Aislinn: that catch my interest, which I do appreciate. But like, it's the oversaturation is kind of like
Aislinn: getting to me personally. I'm just like, I am happy with my two or three farming games,
Aislinn: and then that's like it. I don't even want to look at too many more.
Al: This is the problem, right? There are games that generally ask so much of you.
Al: Like, I, when I start a farming game, I'm generally, unless there's a game that I'm specifically
Al: picking up because it's short, which there were, where a few that I did in September and October
Al: that I picked up because I knew they were short. And I was like, let's get up my number of games
Al: that played this year. Unless you're specifically doing that, so many farming games you go in,
Al: expecting to sink in, you know, 10
Al: of if not hundreds of hours, you know, like rpgs like we've been talking about in the the green
Al: house episode we were talking about. What's it called? Yeah, the Yakuza games or no, was that that
Al: wasn't the green house? This was in this game this episode. I'm so confused. We were talking about
Micah: That was a simple story.
Micah: We were talking about oblivion and stuff.
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: Yakuza and we're talking about persona. It's the same sort of thing you expect to sink in a lot of time
Al: into those games. And so therefore, and part of this maybe because obviously you guys not as much as me
Al: but still to some
Al: I physically can't play every game. There were I think it's 65 games released this year in the farming games genre. And there are probably ones I've missed. It's impossible. It's just physically, if you played one a week, you still wouldn't get through them all. And a week is not a long time to play through
Micah: Holy cow, yeah.
Micah: Yeah, I was trying to think about this question when you, when you should present it earlier
Micah: and like prior to recording and I guess the most succinct way that I can like put how I feel
Micah: about it is that I feel like we are at a point where we have surpassed the like boom of farming
Micah: games and we're at a point now where creators need to really like figure out what they want to
Micah: because I feel like there's a lot of repetition in the space creatively you know as I was
Micah: going through some of this stuff and looking at some of the games that were released this year
Micah: or even just the early access I'm like okay this looks like you know it so and so I'm not that
Micah: interested in it moving on to the next one and like okay this looks like the same thing so I'm
Micah: I'm moving on to the next thing and I think we're out of kind of like
Micah: awkward growth stage in it where it the last couple years the last few years have been so
Micah: successful for farming games and college core games in general that like we've seen so much of
Micah: everything that now the creativity really needs to like shine through in in how you approach them
Micah: rather than just making the same thing with a different skin you know.
Aislinn: Yeah. I agree. I definitely agree. Sometimes that works for some people because maybe like,
Aislinn: like if you told me there was a magical girl farming sim, I'd be like, signed me up.
Micah: I was going to say, I have a great game for you.
Aislinn: But that's also kind of already feels a mystery on a way, at least just like Sailor Moon all the way.
Al: But but this is the thing, there's also there's also this 10 of them already, you know, like this is this is the problem is every every hook that every farming game has is also been done by someone else.
Aislinn: Which is why I picked it up.
Al: Right, and so like they also then need to be good and they also need to be a reason to do it. I think I'm I've been thinking about this quite a bit over the last few weeks because like I don't know is it fair to say I've been feeling burn out a little bit with farming games.
Al: And like seriously considered stopping the podcast after this episode. Um,
Al: But I'm not going to don't worry listeners. I'm going to continue into next year, but I'm changing how I'm thinking about things and changing how I'm going to keep going forwards because I can't just keep going in the same way I am, I will die.
Micah: Sure. (laughs)
Al: Right, there's there's too many. I'm trying to play too many games and I looked back on my list and I talk about this in the greenhouse episode.
Aislinn: Yeah, 100%.
Al: There's almost no games. I've played the aren't farming games. There's this this three. That's it. There are well, except like I did play a bunch of old Pokemon games earlier in the year.
Al: Because I wanted to get the home decks is done for for the stuff and in Pokemon home, but other like other than that, I didn't play any other games that weren't farming games.
Al: I played I think 13 farming games this year averages out just over one a month and I played five games that weren't farming games.
Al: And so yeah, I need I need I need to rethink how I go forward and I think the problem is that
Al: like, I'm like, oh, well, we need someone to decide what are the good games and tell people these are the ones you should play and then I realized wait, that's me.
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: So yeah, I don't know. I don't know what that means going forward. I just it's interesting because like there are more games now, the their more games are less year than there have been farming games basically every year, except last year combined.
Al: Right, like there are just it's insane how many games have released this year that it's just impossible to keep up and
Al: I think I've missed out on games that I think I should have played and because it's just so hard to decide which ones to play.
Micah: Totally. I completely agree.
Aislinn: - Right, yeah, I could.
Al: On that note, what is the game that you most wish you had played you'd managed to make or find the time to play this year that you haven't.
Aislinn: Do you want to go, Micah?
Micah: well, I've got a fun one. Uh, well, I've got, I've got, I've got two technically one that I think
Al: Go for it a fun game. What a crazy idea.
Micah: will be a fun thing for Al. I wish that I, I genuinely wish that I had more time to be able to
Micah: play Corel Island this year because I have heard you rave about it for so long and I finally
Micah: bit the bullet got the game and I just didn't have time to touch
Micah: and I wish that I would have, especially with updates and stuff that happened
Micah: and I was hopeful to be able to like talk about it, but I just did not get
Micah: an opportunity to play it. maybe next year maybe game of the year 2026 will be when we
Al: It's always maybe next year, do you, do you need me, do you need me to schedule an episode
Micah: finally get to talk about coral island, but again just too much stuff came out this year
Aislinn: [laughter]
Micah: too many things that you know
Al: where we talk about it, even though I've talked about it twice already.
Al: Uh, just so you actually play it.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Micah: that does force me to play games, but and then the more serious answer I guess is a bugaboo pocket which
Aislinn: That's true.
Micah: again didn't really know that this existed until I was looking through show notes and looking through some of this stuff
Micah: um I after I looked into it and looked at the store page and looked at the trailer and so on I just I just bought it
Micah: bought it 'cause it, it.
Micah: It really speaks to me the, like, bug collecting aspect in a little, like,
Micah: virtual pet sort of style presentation seems very cool to me. I, I think bugs are very cute.
Micah: I love the idea of this. So I wish that I had gotten a chance to play it so that I could talk about it
Micah: in time for this episode, but unfortunately I didn't.
Aislinn: good news for you. I have the game and I played the game and he recorded an episode about the game.
Micah: [laughs]
Aislinn: But so I can give some some takes on that, but I will say you made a good purchase.
Micah: Cool, that's good to hear.
Aislinn: I thoroughly enjoyed it. And I guess since I'm already talking, you want me to
Micah: What about you, isn't it?
Al: Yes, please.
Aislinn: since I started talking about Bugaboo Pocket. I'll say because I wasn't, I was like, I figured
Aislinn: this would be a like a cottagecore game or like farming game conversation.
Aislinn: So I was like, if we're talking cottagecore game or farming game, that I would say
Aislinn: the game that I wish that I played was spirit fair. Even though it wasn't released this year,
Aislinn: it's, I literally had the game in my library for a hot minute and I just haven't worked my way to the
Al: I cannot say that you're wrong because we gave Spidot Fader a game of the year and a year it didn't come out so
Aislinn: [laughter]
Micah: I also just said Corel Island and that didn't come out this year, so that's you know, I think we're all on the same page.
Al: Yeah, look Spidot Fader is a game. I think anybody who plays games should play
Aislinn: Okay, so we're good.
Al: Spidot Fader it is
Al: An amazing game like it is it is one of my favorite games of all time full stop like it is just it is so good if you like games
Al: You should play this game. Like it's just any if you like any games
Al: You should play this game except maybe maybe don't
Aislinn: You know, you don't got to convince me more. I've had it. I've owned it.
Micah: [laughing]
Al: Maybe don't play it like the week after a family member dies give it a couple months
Aislinn: Fair.
Al: That's that's all that is that is all I would say like don't
Micah: Very very very fair
Al: Like don't give it years, right? You got a you got a you got to process these things
Al: But like maybe give yourself a couple months after a family member dies. That's all I'm saying
Aislinn: Fair
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: So I've heard so I've heard
Aislinn: But I also listed it. I was like just in case we want a game that released this year
Aislinn: I don't know if this is necessarily
Aislinn: Consid I feel like it's considered cottagecore but a game that I still really really really want to pick up this tiny bookshop as well
Aislinn: I've heard a lot of good things about that game, too
Micah: I think it totally counts as cottagecore.
Al: It's not on my list, but like I mean my list is
Al: Loose shall we see
Micah: [laughter]
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: Definitely, definitely recommend.
Micah: I think it's a very cute game.
Micah: I stumbled onto it from a friend's recommendation.
Micah: And it's a very cute and comfy game.
Aislinn: Okay, sweet. I will definitely pick it up at some point.
Micah: I highly recommend it.
Al: All right let's decide on whoo we love a demo.
Micah: And it's kind of demo.
Aislinn: Ah, I love that. No, I love it.
Micah: Sorry, I got to just call out the demos when they show up,
Micah: So. (laughs)
Aislinn: You're the devil person. Got it.
Micah: [laughs]
Al: I'm not going to play that demo because I already know I'm not going to enjoy playing the game
Al: because it's a management style game. All right let's decide on a game of the year we can do this
Aislinn: That's fair. That's fair.
Al: we're nearly there I'm going to change up how I'm doing this a little bit in that I'm not
Al: going to announce all of the previous winners because now that list is getting quite long
Al: I'll just say that last year, Russell.
Aislinn: [Woo]
Al: I'm not going to go through the list of all the games released this year because this list has 50 games in it.
Al: The 65 was because of the 1.0 releases as well, but this really, this, or not, early access, that's what I'm talking about.
Al: This list of games that came out in 1.0 is 50 games long. I am not going to read out 50 games in a row to use.
Al: I think we go straight into nominations so just to remind
Al: you guys can do it however you want and should we go in the order that we've got there, Michael, you can go first.
Micah: - Yeah.
Micah: - Uh, yeah.
Micah: I put runners up on here and I don't really know why.
Micah: There's just were a lot of games that I played that I liked.
Al: Oh, okay. If we've got, no, that's fine. That's fine. We'll do that first then. So if you've got, if you've got games that you're not actually nominating,
Al: you're just saying these are ones that you want to say that were great. And in any other year might have gotten nomination, then go for it.
Micah: I will say that I listed these as runners up because I like them. I know that they are not going to win
Micah: That's that's the that's the premise that I'll set except for one of them. Tomigachi Plaza
Micah: as a Tomigachi fan absolutely loved the game. It was a switch
Micah: It was a like switch version of the DS corner shop games, which I loved and grew up with it's great
Micah: Is it gonna win? Absolutely.
Micah: We're not. Did people really not like it? Absolutely. They didn't like it. Case in point, Alice speaking right now.
Al: No, 'cause it was a terrible game.
Al: I absolutely hate that game with an absolute passion.
Aislinn: I'm like Slack John right now.
Al: There are only, there are only two games
Al: that I have ever said are bad on this podcast.
Al: Most games, it's not for me.
Al: There are only two games that I've said are bad,
Al: both released this year.
Al: Sugar Jew Island and Tamagotcha Plaza is a bad game.
Micah: It's okay listeners. He just doesn't get it and that's okay
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: No, you are just blinded by nostalgia.
Al: is what it is and you are never going to say anything negative of it, Tamagotchi, mica.
Micah: Now that's not necessarily true, but it's not necessarily wrong either
Aislinn: Whew! This is crazy. I thought that was like, because all I know is Al's opinion, I thought that was like, you were like, coming in with like sarcasm. I was like, oh, and then I realized how much I was like, no, you're serious. Oh!
Micah: No, I loved it. I fully 100% of it. I think it got a lot more hate than it deserved,
Micah: given what it was supposed to be. And they still have like regularly little updates and things
Micah: to like scenery as the seasons change and so on. I think it's great and I love it and I love
Micah: playing it. Did I think it was going to win? Absolutely not. That's why it's where it is.
Al: [laughing]
Micah: Tales of the Shire. I also got a lot of dislike from what I had seen. I loved it because I love
Micah: Lord of the Rings. I love Tolkien. I love the Hobbit aesthetic. I thought it did some really,
Micah: really cool things with like the social aspects of it and inviting people to dinner and
Micah: I just thought it was really good.
Micah: I understand that people don't agree.
Micah: I don't think it was game of the year material, for sure, but I thought it was good.
Micah: And if you like toking, then yeah, it's probably for you.
Al: I think it's problem is people's expectations.
Al: They heard, "Oh, it's a Hobbit stargie."
Al: And they went in expecting a Hobbit stargie.
Al: And like, it's not what people expected.
Al: And that is hard to say that people are wrong about that.
Al: But it's also hard to manage those expectations.
Al: The game didn't do itself any favors
Al: by just announcing themselves.
Al: But you're still going to get people going in with their expectations and it's also like if you compare it to other lord of the ring stuff, it is obviously there are some similarities but like it's it's kind of anti a lot of token stuff.
Al: Because it is the bits that you don't see, right? Like you don't you don't see the shy or living its life because that's not interesting film or book, right? And although I'm sure if given enough life that token probably would have done that. But if anybody would he would. But it's it's just it's a hard hard thing to live up to people's expectations.
Micah: Right. Yeah, sure, of course. Yeah.
Micah: Hey
Micah: Right 100% he would have uh
Micah: totally. And I think that they already, unfortunately, sort of
Micah: blew it out of the gate because of the delays, I think that immediately set off red flags to
Micah: people who were already maybe on the fence about it to say, like, oh, this is something's going wrong.
Micah: So, um, I, you know, I don't think that that's necessarily always fair, because we don't know
Micah: what goes like it. Like we've said, for other things, we don't really know what goes on behind the
Micah: for why things get delayed and why they don't. Uh, but I, having played it, having avoided that,
Micah: you know, um, kind of frustration or that like, you know, negativity about it and having played it
Micah: myself, I really enjoyed it. I thought it was a really cozy game and a lot of what I was expecting
Micah: out of a, uh, hobbit life sim, I guess. Um, but again, don't think it's going to win game game with
Micah: the year. I don't, you know, uh, yeah, yeah. It's true. And then my last, I, the one of them,
Al: Which is weird because like a year ago, I would have said it it was in for a chance, but
Al: That's just how these things happen sometimes
Micah: I'll save, because I know this discussion is probably going to come up some point, but
Al: [laughing]
Micah: squeak cross. I, I was shocked that it wasn't on your list, uh, but I understand that there's a
Micah: lot of stuff as a die hard pick cross defender squeak cross was a beautiful combination of
Micah: pick cross and, uh, animal crossing, happy home designer, uh, house decorating. Uh, and it
Micah: was another thing that I 100% had happily run factory pixel cross was, it was on the list.
Al: Maybe maybe next year you can on your own do our which is the best pakras came of the year
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: We did have we also was it was uh
Al: The Rune Factory one came out this year, didn't it? Yeah, couldn't this me? What a what a year?
Aislinn: Yeah, I was like, isn't there one?
Micah: There is squeak cross. However, was not on the list. And in my opinion is maybe the better game,
Al: It was it
Micah: but that's, you know,
Al: look, Renfak tree was bought.
Al: This is both better and worse than the story of season's one.
Micah: Absolutely. I am shocked how much content is in that game, though. I've put a lot of time into it,
Micah: and it's someone who like barrels through pick-cross games. I'm like not even 50% of the way through,
Micah: and I've just, it's, there's holes. They put a lot into it, and that is both a positive and a negative,
Micah: I think. But those are my, those are my runner-up.
Al: Aslan, do you have any runners up that you want to mention?
Aislinn: I will say so it's so it's so hard for me to talk on this because there are so many games that I have not played because time is limited for me, but my I know, so
Al: [Laughing]
Micah: We also didn't play them.
Al: There are 50 games in this list,
Al: Eslin. You don't have to keep saying there are lots of games you didn't play.
Al: We know that. [Laughing]
Al: There are lots of games nobody played.
Aislinn: It seems like I'm just gonna give a big old list of games that I think from just
Aislinn: general knowledge are like games that I think are contenders for like game of the year just purely from reception. I'm sorry. I hate giving context, but I'm going to keep giving context.
Aislinn: So my quick speedrun list is Binkum, Discounty, Fantasy Life, Hello Kitty, Lens Island, Slime Adventure 2, Story of Seasons, Hail the Shire. Those are my speedrun!
Micah: Yeah, I played some of those.
Al: Oh, okay, fine, great.
Micah: Hey, that's a way to minute now.
Aislinn: I'm breaking Al down.
Micah: That's two tails of the Shire mentions.
Aislinn: [Laughter]
Micah: We might be honest, nothing here.
Al: Fantastic, Mike, Mike, what's your first nomination?
Micah: Uh, my first nomination is going to be Hello Kitty Island Adventure.
Al: Amazing. Cool. This is probably where I see that's also my first nomination.
Aislinn: [Laughing]
Micah: Oh, okay.
Aislinn: Oh...
Al: Hello Kitty Island Adventure is a fantastic game. I did not play it very much this year
Aislinn: [Laughing]
Al: because I played it a lot when it came out on Apple Arcade but most people will have
Al: played it this year and so that's I'm counting it as a new release because like 90% of
Al: people who've played the game have probably played it on Switch, right? Let's not let's let's not
Al: pretend that many people are on Apple Arcade. It's a fantastic game. It is better than it had any
Al: right to be. It is amazing because the coincidence of it being called the same thing as the South Park
Al: joke and they have confirmed it was a coincidence. They did not know about the South Park joke when
Al: they named the game just makes it even better. I never would have expected it was 2023 I think
Al: Kiritima and Apple Arcade.
Al: Before that game was announced, I never would have existed.
Al: I just expected that I would ever actively enjoy a Hello Kitty game.
Al: And then this comes out and it's so deep and fun and everything.
Al: And like also, and this sounds like such a silly thing, but like the movement in the game is actively enjoyable.
Micah: Yeah.
Al: I will always enjoy jumping in a game.
Al: Again, I think every one of my games on my list, you can jump.
Micah: They did a great job with the movement.
Micah: And it translated really well from what it was in Apple.
Al: And just saying.
Micah: Because I also played it what it launched in Apple Arcade.
Micah: And with everything that launches on Apple Arcade, I go,
Micah: I wish this was on Switch, or I wish this was on console,
Micah: or something, so I'm not playing on my phone.
Micah: But I did play quite a bit of it, and then I kind of waited to see if it was going to come to this switch.
Micah: And I'm happy that I did, because then I played much more of it on the switch.
Micah: And this year, it's just so good.
Micah: Such a good experience. Very fun. It's very task-driven, which I had heard some people had gripes about it in that way.
Micah: That it was just, it just felt like fetch quest sort of, but I...
Micah: I liked it because of that.
Al: I agree. I love how it's like, you know exactly what you would need to do to continue going like so many games are like
Al: Oh, we're not gonna tell you what you need to do to get to the next friendship level or to get to the next story beat
Al: And it's like no no here are the like five things you can do to progress your friendship here are the two things you need to do to get to the next
Al: Anything and you can you can do and also this is what you need to do to get the next quest for this person is also like mind-blowing
Al: The fact that they can go you can't currently get a quest for this one because you need to raise your friendship level with this other person like you can say
Al: It's fetch quest all you want, but that's all games are games are just fetch quest. They're go here do that
Al: That's the entire game
Al: Right, and you can ignore the quest if you want you can just do things and talk to people and naturally get those things or you can look at the list and do them if you want and I want
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: I can't argue with any of this because if I had played Harlow Calo Kitty, I would probably agree.
Aislinn: It's been on my wishlist for like a really long time. It's just my only hesitation is I fear that
Aislinn: when I download it, it will take all of my time, which is what exactly what it sounds like.
Aislinn: And initially, initially, $40 felt like a lot. But, but it sounds like it's worth its value.
Micah: It is a steep entry point for sure, I will agree.
Aislinn: And I would probably get good value out of it for the $40. And it goes on sale like someone
Aislinn: regularly, like maybe $5, $10 off or something like that. So I feel like it's worth it.
Aislinn: It's got overwhelmingly positive reviews on Steam. It's constantly, I feel like being updated.
Aislinn: So while I've never played it from what y'all have said, my general interest in it over many,
Aislinn: many, however long it's been out since Apple Arcade. And just, yeah, the general consensus,
Aislinn: I would be happy to also
Aislinn: nominate it and also it doesn't there's been for whatever reason I'm not a
Aislinn: huge Sam Rio person but like I have like generally notice that there for
Aislinn: whatever reason has been like a slow erasure of Tuxedo Sam and I don't know why
Aislinn: because he is my boy and I love that little dude and he's in the game so the
Aislinn: fact that he's not a race from the game makes me happy.
Micah: Yes, completely as a karopi stand. I feel the same way, so
Aislinn: Oh.
Aislinn: Good, good pick.
Aislinn: Robbie still exists though, Tuxedo Sam is tough to find, very tough to find.
Micah: Yes, I have noticed that a lot of the like
Micah: Western stuff they tend to not include karopi for whatever reason
Micah: It makes me very sad because he's such a good character. He's such a good good little boy, but
Aislinn: He's such a good
Aislinn: Agreed
Micah: if this helps you in any way.
Micah: Or one way or another, I agree that the entry point is pretty pricey for it.
Micah: It was my wife's main point of contention with it, because I knew that she would love it.
Micah: I played it on Apple.
Micah: So I was like, it's for sure your type of game.
Micah: You will love it.
Micah: She was like, yeah, I'm at that price.
Micah: And I eventually just bought it for her.
Micah: I was like, you just got to play it.
Micah: I know that you're going to like it.
Micah: You have to play it.
Micah: it was that the game that
Micah: she has spent the most time playing this year like she's put hundreds of hours into it which
Micah: is tends to be like a rare thing for her so it's always interesting to me when a game gets her to do that so
Micah: it is well worth the $40 price point but yes if you can get it for sale, get it for sale for sure.
Al: Um, I don't think Aslan, you understand what nominee thing works. You don't, you don't nominate
Al: something that has already been just because other people, we will discuss at the end what we think
Al: wins based on the nominations. So, Aslan was your first nomination.
Aislinn: Uhh...
Aislinn: My... one of my nominations is Snacko.
Al: So this is where I say this, not always another one of my nominations. Am I going to be
Aislinn: Just because I...
Micah: [laughing]
Al: here to announce anything myself. Goodness me.
Aislinn: What?
Aislinn: Didn't this happen last year?
Al: I don't think this much, but anyway, we'll get, well, it's fine. It's fine. It's fine. I get to go next,
Al: so I can get to announce my third game. Continue. Snack. Go.
Aislinn: So yes, Snacko.
Aislinn: I, while I haven't, so.
Aislinn: A lot of time into it is one of the few games that I have played on this list, and between
Aislinn: the, definitely the music, the art style, the colors, the characters so far are very silly, cute,
Aislinn: quirky, all that sort of stuff. The character designs are all really cute, and just the gameplay loop
Aislinn: is so good. Like, all I want to do as of recently is just pick up the game, and just, I love,
Aislinn: I love the quest love the quest love playing it with the wiki
Aislinn: side by side. I have been really really really enjoying snacko so I that's my that's my spiel. It's hard for me to speak say too much more because I haven't done the full time sink in but like my desire to sink time into it is very strong.
Al: know that's fine yes we we're also at this point where a week away from
Al: recording a detailed episode on the game but people will have already
Micah: [laughing]
Al: heard that by the time this comes out I agree I think it's great the I mean
Al: I've been excited but it's not cool for literally years I interviewed the
Al: developers I think in
Al: was a 2020 or maybe 21 it was certainly quite a few years ago and I played the alpha of the game back then and when it wasn't even publicly available that point they somehow managed to get an interview with them and they were like hey here's the the alpha if you want to play it before the interview and it was 2020 January of 2020 that I interviewed them and even back then I adored the
Al: the game I didn't put a lot of time into it then but like I said in the interview that it's the first game that I have actively enjoyed decorating in because it's so easy and flexible at the same time the the way you can just like pop things up and you can rotate them and it's not just like not it's kind of grid based but not really grid based.
Aislinn: Ooh.
Aislinn: Yeah
Al: The one thing I would I'd find frustrating in the decorating is paths paths are.
Al: It's hard to get me to enjoy decorating and the world is great the graphics are really fun the the controls are good I've been playing it as I say on my my ally and.
Al: The has like proper controller support none of this fake controller support you can jump again jumping is a big thing for me in these games you will see as we continue on I like that you can jump it's fun it's fun to jump alright.
Aislinn: Yeah, you know what? That's a very good point too. It is actually very fun to jump and like the movement system
Aislinn: Like you can go as slow as you want
Aislinn: But if you want to like jump over hills and houses and stuff
Aislinn: It's pretty accessible to do that. So you can like kind of speed through the game if you want to it's it's quite nice
Micah: I've got some words to say about snake how if I'm allowed.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: I put snacco as one of my runners up and I waited to talk about it because I knew that
Micah: it probably was going to come up. The only reason, the only reason I have it as a runner up,
Micah: I want to say like Al, I have been waiting for this game for a very, very long time.
Micah: I played the alpha, I played the beta, I am mutuals with the developers, they're great people,
Micah: I love them, they're very funny, they're very...
Micah: enjoyable people. Um, I
Micah: somehow, after backing it on Kickstarter and playing it, all the, like, pre-releases for it and
Micah: stuff, missed that it fully released, that the 1.0 released. And that is the only reason that I don't
Micah: have it as much, because I did not get a chance to play like the 1.0 yet. Now that I know it's, it's out,
Micah: I, I'm very excited to, uh, sink a lot of time into it. Um, I think just...
Micah: the madness of Pokemon release and everything else that's been going on is just
Micah: trip me up and in, in, it's, uh, in the news of its 1.0 release, but, you know, yeah,
Al: Micah, Micah, the 1.0 came out in me.
Micah: uh, you know, there was a lot going on in May for me. Okay.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: Yeah, but you can't use Pokemon as an English kiss.
Micah: Uh, I can't use, uh, Legend Zier as an excuse.
Micah: Uh, but yeah, I, I couldn't justifiably put it as like my game of the year just because I haven't
Micah: played the 1.0 yet. So, um, but what I have played of it, I agree with everything that's been said,
Al: Okay. So. All right. So onto my final one because YouTube both picked ones that I've
Aislinn: [Laughter]
Al: already picked, but my final nomination is Story of Seasons grand bizarre. I look, it wouldn't
Al: be the first time that a story of seasons game has won if it were to win, to Raymon one
Al: in 2019. A lot of the more recent story of seasons have felt.
Al: Black Luster, is that fair to say, Micah? But this one, but this one, look, I mean, it's,
Micah: Yeah, I mean, I think they just felt like faithful remakes.
Micah: I think where this felt like much more innovative remake.
Al: yes, but yeah, not even just, just if he makes it, but like pioneers of all of town.
Al: It was fine. It was fine. What is this? I love this game so much. It is one of my, one of
Micah: Yeah, yeah, it definitely was just fine.
Al: favorite. I hate to say the term start.
Al: But it's one of my favorite like fully rounded farming games where you are like life simulating rather than anything else like you are a person and you are inheriting this farm and it's in this village and your aim is to build up this farm and to find someone to marry and to progress this town and build it up and blah blah blah.
Micah: [laughing]
Al: The story the overall story. So I would say that I think Stardew still definitely wins in terms of like individual characters stories. I think I don't think anything will ever surpass that.
Al: Maybe we'll see but it is incredible. But I think the overall story for the game as a whole, I think this is my favorite of any of the farming games.
Al: Like the building up of the bizarre and like it's such a silly story. I don't want to talk too much about it because.
Al: Like there's a silliness to it while also being a seriousness to it that I think is a really nice balance of things and I was really not excited about the idea of the bizarre because I was like I don't like the idea of having to wait a week to sell stuff but they did it so well.
Al: It feels so balanced. I feel like I get to focus through the week on doing what I want to do and then sell on sell on Saturday.
Al: To think about the money very much because that's when you're buying your seeds as well. Right. You've got one day to focus on the money and then you go the other days to focus on the farming and the villagers and all of these other things.
Al: I think it's a really nice balance of things. I think it's the best story of seasons game, which is saying something because tree of tones was great. I love tree of tones but I think this I think this tree of tones I think has better characters.
Micah: Hmm. That's interesting. Uh, it's good to take into consideration since, you know,
Al: What?
Micah: I also have it on my list. And we also recorded an episode about it. Uh, it is a second on my
Aislinn: Mmm.
Micah: list. Or if season's grand bazaar, uh, for a lot of the same reasons that you said, it feels so
Micah: polished. It feels well rounded and like, uh, expanding on the experience of just being a farming
Micah: games so much more.
Micah: But the gameplay loop is comfortable and doesn't feel incredibly intrusive.
Micah: I feel like I have a pretty good grasp of things.
Micah: Once I really get the cycle going and it just feels more polished.
Al: Oh and and it has jumping
Micah: It does have jumping.
Micah: Not only does it have jumping, it has jumping barrels and it has gliding, so there's
Al: The gliding is so good. The only complaint I have is the invisible walls that you have
Micah: facets to the jumping.
Al: I don't like the invisible walls especially in the mountains, but other than that jumping is great
Micah: I agree.
Al: The gliding is great. The barrels are great. It's I love jumping in games. Sue me
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: see. I think trio of towns was the first. I think trio of towns were the first. I think
Aislinn: That might be the biggest takeaway this year.
Al: of towns was the first farming game I played that had jumping and I just jumped everywhere.
Al: Every farming game should have jumping now. Please jump in your game. Please and thank you.
Aislinn: I mean, I thought I figured this was going to happen, I'm not opposed to it.
Aislinn: It sounds great.
Aislinn: I've only heard great things about it, so that's my little spiel on it.
Al: All right, who has how many do each of you have left because I have none left
Micah: I think it's I got one.
Al: Okay, well Micah you go for yours first then and then easily and you can do your others your other one
Micah: My game of the year number one nomination is fantasy life I
Al: I was worried this was gonna happen because I've not played the game and I really wish because I realized in the last section
Aislinn: Ahhhhhh
Al: Where we're talking about what game we most wish we should have played. I didn't actually say mine and I was trying to say life. I
Micah: I, I saw that in the doc, uh, when I opened it before recording and I thought to myself,
Al: Really wish I'd played it
Micah: Oh, no, it pretty much, it's such a good game.
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: Was that the moment you realized that wasn't gonna win when
Al: I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry. It's it's my
Al: biggest it's my biggest failure this year. I think I've heard so much good about it and it just I just I just
Al: I just didn't and I can't give you a reason why I just didn't
Micah: - Yeah.
Micah: Too many games, too many games, Elle.
Micah: I was a very, very big fan of the original fantasy life.
Micah: I am a very big fan of a lot of the things
Micah: that level five does leaning into generative AI
Micah: and not included.
Micah: And it seems like they have dialed that back since I just,
Micah: I was so excited.
Micah: for this game to come out because of what I liked about the original fantasy life and it just didn't
Micah: like exceed the expectation. It just absolutely blew it away. There's so much to do in this game.
Micah: There's three different maps. There's, you know, animal crossing style like island,
Micah: not really an island, but like your village that you build up you can rescue.
Micah: New characters that become villagers and they give, they can come along with you on your adventures.
Micah: They, there's, each class has really, really straightforward and easy to follow tasks in order to,
Micah: to upgrade those classes. They've just like, not just like streamlined it, but just made it a better
Micah: experience overall. The story is fun and interesting. It's
Micah: it's a very, it's just a very addictive game and it's a really enjoyable game. I'm very happy
Micah: with how it turned out. I was very nervous about it. And I was blown away. I highly, highly recommend it.
Aislinn: I'll add on that if I had to pick between fantasy life and story of seasons it
Aislinn: Like looking through both of those because I was like, oh if I wanted to play I actually had this thought of like if I wanted to pick between the two
Aislinn: What would I pick and it feels like I would pick?
Aislinn: fantasy life as well
Al: We're going to do all that discussion in a minute.
Micah: it's so good. But neither of you have played it. So I, I'm, it's already doing it, but that's
Al: Let's, we're doing the nominations just now.
Aislinn: Okay
Al: Get Aislin, Aislin.
Al: Let's, Micah, let's get, we'll get to that in a minute because there's more to come.
Micah: okay. Go right ahead.
Aislinn: I
Al: Aislin, your final nomination, please.
Aislinn: Final nomination should not come as a surprise, but it's won or stop
Aislinn: um, I
Aislinn: Really really really enjoyed that game. That's this this this game is probably like
Aislinn: I would say top like out of all the games that I played this year
Aislinn: I would say it's like top. I don't know where it would fall but top five
Aislinn: in
Aislinn: Game of the year for me like overall
Aislinn: It left a very good and big impact on me in the sense of just the theme of just learning
Aislinn: patience and
Aislinn: Taking my time as someone that struggles sometimes with that and just like taking a step back and like just
Aislinn: slowing down
Aislinn: so
Aislinn: While that theme is not a very uncommon theme in regards to storytelling the way that this game told that story
Aislinn: I think was very touching to me, and I really enjoyed the game.
Aislinn: I played a lot. The music was fun, the characters were silly. I personally love the characters,
Aislinn: I know sometimes those type of characters in this game, I feel like can be all putting for some people,
Aislinn: and some people may not particularly care, but I personally found a lot of the characters to be quite
Al: - Yes, some people, yes.
Aislinn: charming, and just I felt initially it took a little bit of work to get into, but once I got
Aislinn: into it, I really enjoyed it, but I think the reason it took a little bit of work to kind of get into
Aislinn: the game and figure out if I liked it or not was because of just going in with the mindset of not
Aislinn: having patience, and I felt like I, as the story progressed, I kind of slowed down with the main
Aislinn: character, and really while the main character and I are very different personality-wise, I felt like
Aislinn: I found ways to relate to her, and found that to be very special as she is, again, someone very
Aislinn: different from how I am, so the fact that I could relate to someone that was very different,
Aislinn: I found to be very special too, so I really liked it.
Al: I find that I find that really funny because, um, I, I, I understand why people like this game,
Al: I, not a fan at all. Um, and I find it funny that you're like, you're saying that you're
Al: not like the main character, but you find ways to, um, understand her. And I'm like,
Al: I am that character that is me. And that's why I couldn't play the game. Like, I, I just,
Al: I, I know what it's trying to do. I get what it's going with story. I see what it's
Al: her. Um, and it wants me to go along the journey, but I just, I hate the characters so
Al: much that I cannot deal with them. I cannot keep playing the game because the characters are just
Al: actively annoying me. Um, that's, and that's, and that's the thing I know. I know what it's trying
Micah: I don't know, it sounds like you gotta slow down, I don't know.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Al: to do. I know that it's trying to tell me that, but I, I just can't do it. And I actively didn't
Al: making, which is like the core aspect of the game. It's too complicated, it's too long-winded,
Aislinn: Oh, I love that it was great!
Al: it's too, dare I say slow. I just, I get why people like it, but I can't, I just can't.
Micah: [laughter]
Aislinn: Hey, that's fair. That's totally fair. I'm not going to argue against it. I'm not going to argue against that. I understand.
Micah: I didn't play this game. I don't really know what it is, but this conversation has
Micah: Immediately made me want to play it
Al: have fascinated that you've not even heard of it. So it's the it's the newest game from the
Al: developer of the Stanley Parable. We've probably talked, we probably talked about it on a previous
Micah: Oh, you know what? It it's in my wish like
Aislinn: [laugh]
Micah: Let's you know
Al: episode and you've been like oh it sounds good. It's a gorgeous, it's a gorgeous looking game and
Micah: That's usually how things wind up on my
Al: I love what it's trying to do, I just can't.
Micah: - Oh, it's Annapurna.
Micah: - Huh.
Micah: It looks beautiful.
Micah: And it is when you're storied, really sold me on it.
Al: Yeah.
Aislinn: Heck yeah, let's go!
Micah: So, I mean, I also have a pretty hard time
Micah: like slowing down on things.
Micah: And I've noticed more and more as time has gone on
Micah: that then as we've been like,
Micah: I'm not trying to, I'm not trying to do social commentary,
Micah: but you know, like as we've been trained to accept.
Al: Oh yeah, 'cause we never do social commentary on this podcast.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: as we've been trained to, you know, be more interested
Micah: and excited about quick, you know, immediate satisfaction.
Micah: And I've found myself struggling with that.
Micah: And the internal struggle of wanting to slow down,
Micah: but not feeling like I'm able to.
Micah: So, I'm very interested in this based on your experience
Micah: with it.
Aislinn: Yeah, I think from that perspective you would like the game.
Micah: Cool.
Micah: I'm also interested in it because I'll seem to hate it so much.
Al: [Laughter]
Aislinn: I mean clearly we have some differing opinions about Tamagotchi Plaza, so...
Micah: [laughing]
Al: Look, look, look, it is not, it is no Tamagotchi Plaza, it is no Sugar Jew Island, I understand
Al: why people like this game, it is not actively a bad game, it's just not for me, the other
Al: two are bad games.
Micah: And that's totally fair.
Micah: Yeah.
Micah: Oh, wow, okay.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: So when are we going to go through, let's go quickly through the opinions from the poll.
Al: So first up, we had a entry entrance on the poll and we had an exact eight...
Al: way Thai for a game of the year on the poll, eight people voted for different games.
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: Okay.
Al: So we're going to go through them.
Al: First we have three silly answers, Cody voted soaksong, which is not a Cogico game.
Micah: No, that's that's valid though, so we should consider it
Al: Stuart voted for Legends ZA, which all I'm going to say, Stuart is obviously that's
Al: not going to win the game of the year on this episode, but like maybe listen to the greenhouse
Al: episode coming out soon.
Al: And we do argue about it a lot.
Micah: - Just gonna be argue about it the whole time.
Aislinn: we all have differing opinions
Micah: - Yeah.
Al: Come back to this after you've listened, you might find it funny.
Micah: [laughing]
Al: And Vincent voted for Expedition 33, which was the full name for that, I can't remember.
Aislinn: Ooooh.
Micah: Player obscure.
Aislinn: Clear Obscura.
Al: There we go, there we go, obviously also not a Cogico game.
Al: where we're moving on.
Al: There we go.
Micah: [laughter]
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: Nami has said, "I haven't actually played hairdling, but it's been on my wishlist forever and I've seen gameplay of it, and I know people that have beaten it. I cannot wait to play it."
Al: fantasy life I use a strong contender as well so now me actually voted
Micah: Oh.
Al: for hardling. Next we have Kevin who says quite a long paragraph, he's done a
Al: journey because Johnny did this really long paragraph last year for what was it, Rusty's
Al: retirement. Here is Kevin's long paragraph. In a space where cozy has been underused
Al: to the point of almost holding no weight, one to stop does in fact manage to capture
Al: the essence of cozy through its gameplay and setting. While still aggressively confronting
Micah: Oh. No way.
Aislinn: Yes! Yes! Sorry.
Al: us with the existential horrors.
Al: of anxiety burnout and search for purpose so many people in this day and age can relate to.
Al: It manages to blend the whimsy and almost absurdity of changing the color of birds and
Al: brewing tea in a multi-story contraption, which with the grim images of injured warriors and
Al: inner parts of ourselves we fear.
Al: Wonderstop is a story for the times and for the ages, cottagecore games these days often travel
Al: the well-traded ground of seeking escape from a carpet, capitalistic world of overworking
Al: and overachieving.
Al: games have managed to follow through with that to the degree Wonderstop has. Clearly I'm biased
Al: because it's playing off personal issues I know all too well, but at the same time it's hard to
Al: say that any game we have ever covered has ever managed to speak directly to me like this. And
Al: also yes, the fastest bullet alive, the second Dirk Warhard novel we get to read from, is deserving
Al: of a Pulitzer all in its own. Kevin, I think a Pulitzer is a journalism reward, isn't it? It's not a
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: novel the word. I know that's not
Micah: I love that that's what you pulled out of the head.
Al: a word. I don't. Okay, so that's a vote for one to stop.
Micah: So funny.
Aislinn: Of...
Micah: It is an award in journalism arts and letters so you know, not just journalism but...
Al: Okay, so it's not just journalism fair enough. My bad. My bad. So that's Kevin's vote for one to stop
Al: next we have cat
Aislinn: I second everything he said, just just as a heads up.
Al: That's fine next we have cat who said research story and rune factory were also great
Al: But story of seasons grand bazaar was just so incredible
Al: Absolutely the best game in the series including harvest moon honestly
Micah: - Oh.
Al: I feel like I am the only person who really disliked
Al: Hello kitty island adventure even though I like Sanrio characters and obviously I like this style of game
Aislinn: Oh. Oh.
Al: It was just so boring and flat
Al: So that's a positive vote for story seasons grand bazaar and a negative vote
Al: Kitty island adventure. I don't know. Do we do negative votes?
Al: And then Spencer has just said hello kitty
Al: so
Al: There we go
Al: And Chris and Chris has voted for fantasy life. I the girl who steals time
Micah: uh-oh the cancel each other out huge
Al: So we are in a bit of a pickle
Al: I feel like this is this is the
Al: narrowed it down to five games for the
Al: We have a snackle who has two point five votes. I feel like you're you kind of gave it half of all in your
Al: runner-ups
Al: Micah
Micah: Yeah. Yeah. I was very ready if you recall in our discussions
Al: Hello
Al: Yeah
Micah: out previously about Snacko. I was very ready for Snacko to be my game of the year.
Al: Yep
Micah: I unfortunately just blank. I don't know what happened.
Al: Didn't play it
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: We then have Hello kitty which has two votes from us plus one from the polls
Al: So that's three votes for Hello kitty
Al: We have story of seasons grand bazaar
Al: Which again has two votes from us and one from the polls so three in total
Al: We then have fantasy life
Al: I which has one vote from us and one from the polls so two and one to stop
Al: Which also has one from us and one from the polls so that's two
Al: So we have five games that have two two and a half or three
Micah: And I will say for what it's worth.
Micah: The ticker has moved.
Micah: I have gone from adding wanders up to my wishlist to now.
Micah: I doubt just downloaded the demo.
Micah: So it's, you know, for whatever that's worth.
Aislinn: I'll take these, I'll take these wins, so that's it.
Al: I'm gonna start off by saying I think Snacko should win because it's the only one that
Micah: I just want to...
Al: all three of us mentioned even if nobody in the poll voted for it. That's my that's
Al: my opening gambit response.
Micah: That is a very fair and valid opening gambit and
Al: [laughing]
Micah: I'm prepared for fantasy life. I tend to not make it through. I'm very sad that that's the case, but I also
Micah: Am prepared for that eventuality so
Al: fantasy life, I is probably going to go the way of Cartel Island, where if one other person had played it, it probably would win, and there's probably going to be an angry person in Slack, who says it should have won, but I think it's hard to justify winning in its current.
Micah: Sure, I think so too and that's that's I that's okay with
Al: I'm gonna say no to Hello Kitty even though I nominated it. I think if we have to strike an extra one off
Al: I think it's gonna be Hello Kitty because it didn't actually come out
Micah: Yeah, I think that's fair to I I think most of our game play of it between the the two of us who did play it
Aislinn: Bye! Yeah!
Micah: Did not take place during this year anyways, so I'm also okay with that
Aislinn: Yeah, I'm not, I'm not opposed to it.
Micah: It is a great game though and you should play it and I can't remember who it was that voted against it, but
Al: Yeah, well. Yeah, absolutely. Oh, I think
Aislinn: Oh, yeah, 100%.
Micah: Don't listen to that
Al: It was cat I think yeah, it was cat
Aislinn: No, I'm still, I'm still going to check it out.
Aislinn: I am 100% still going to check it out.
Al: Look I I I I suspect cat would just I say it's it's just not for them, right? Like it did I don't think they're saying it's actively bad
Micah: Sure. Yeah, totally.
Al: They do explicitly say I feel like I'm the only person who disliked it. So you know that that's
Micah: [laughing]
Al: Sometimes we are sometimes games. Just don't grab us and that's
Micah: - Well Kat, if it makes you feel any better,
Micah: you are not the first person that I've heard say
Micah: that they didn't like it.
Micah: So in that regard also, I will yield.
Al: Okay, so we're down to three we've got Snacko, Story of Seasons, Grand Bazaar, and Wonderstop.
Al: I don't want to strike off Story of Seasons, but if I'm choosing between Story of Seasons and Snacko...
Al: I'd probably picking Snacko Story of Seasons have one, one before.
Aislinn: I'm picking Snacko, but again.
Al: I...
Aislinn: I don't think that should be a arguing point.
Al: Sure, yeah, I'm not saying they shouldn't win, I'm just like, I've just, it's a thing to consider.
Aislinn: I think it's OK for them to win again.
Aislinn: But I think--
Micah: As someone who has story of seasons on their list and did not play Snacko this year in its 1.0 finish state,
Micah: it feels more right to me spiritually maybe to give it to Snacko over story of seasons,
Micah: especially because, and again, I don't know that this necessarily needs to be a point of argument, but it is also a remake of an existing game.
Micah: Which did an incredible job with it, but it is not necessarily completely new in the ways that Snacko is, I guess.
Al: So I understand what you're saying, but also I think that grandpa's art does the things that
Al: Remakes should do it took a game that people might have missed a game that people didn't really play a game that could use a lot of improvement and
Al: It did all of that remakes far too often take here's a really popular game
Al: Let's just do it again and this did not do that at all
Al: It took a game that people hadn't really played and gave them an opportunity to play it much better than it had been before
Micah: Yeah, that's true.
Micah: No, I can understand that. I just it just feel I don't know I don't know how else to describe it other than it feels right for
Al: I
Al: Know that's fair. I'm fine. I'm I'm I'm not fine to strike off
Al: I do think I do think it's my favorite game of the year
Al: Studies seasons grandpa's art. I think personally I prefer it to snackle
Al: But I think in terms of our collective one
Al: Probably snackle wins over story of seasons grandpa's art, but we still have the wonder stop of all to discuss. I don't want to give it to wonder stop
Al: There's a very
Al: Persuasive argument
Al: But also I still just don't like the game. Sorry
Aislinn: I mean, that's fair. That's, I, I understand that you just don't like the game.
Micah: just hate bond and whimsy and that's understandable.
Al: [laughter]
Aislinn: I, I just, the, the, the problem is I love the game. I love, it's not, it's not necessarily doing
Aislinn: anything revolutionary, but at the same time it's doing something revolutionary during this time.
Aislinn: I think this game coming out during this specific period and like snapshot of time,
Aislinn: I think it's doing something great.
Aislinn: It's very special to me with, again, encouraging.
Al: But also what is, what it's, but what it's saying is, hey, capitalism bad by the such an original idea. It's not really, right? Like, I get, I get.
Micah: But it's very true, so...
Aislinn: No, it's not. It's but the thing is I
Al: Sure, sure, sure. I get the point and I get Kevin's point about it doing it best, but it's also like not that original. And also it's doing it in our, I don't have a fully formed sentence.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: I can't say one way or another because I did not play it and I mostly just learned about it here.
Al: So I stopped on a comma.
Micah: But, you know, and in that way I have a hard time pushing it through to the game of the year because my compromise is a game that I have played just in its alpha and beta stages.
Micah: And I am willing to, you know, accept that as.
Micah: It's a game of the year. I just can't do that with Wonderstop personally because I just haven't played it.
Micah: I think it sounds incredible and I am very excited to play it now based on everything that I've heard, but it's it's it just doesn't make sense for me to to say it's my game of the year if I haven't played it and I just learned about it so.
Aislinn: Yeah, no, that's, I got it.
Al: well yeah and just just a reminder it's not individual games of the years is the
Al: podcasts game of the year so that's fair but yeah I think selfishly I would
Al: say that I think it's hard for us to say that the podcast game of the year is
Al: a game that one of the three of
Aislinn: Yeah, no, I mean, I mean, I'm not, I, I, yeah, no, I, I can agree, I can agree with that.
Micah: Yeah, I agree.
Aislinn: I mean, we all kind of collectively like snacko and one sense or another in
Aislinn: regardless of the stage that it was in.
Al: Yeah well I mean I get the reasons why you like it I just yeah I think it's hard
Aislinn: So I know going for Wanderstop is like a selfish pick.
Al: to justify it as being the podcast game of the year and Kevin's going to kill me.
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: Yeah, probably. Probably. Kevin might also kill me for not pushing for it harder.
Al: yet, oh yeah, absolutely. So, Snacko is the harvest season's game of the year,
Al: 2025. Congratulations to Snacko. I can't believe we got there, especially considering
Aislinn: Yeah. Hey.
Al: Michael was saying it's not going to win right at the beginning.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Micah: No, wait, when did I say that?
Al: During the update, you said you wanted to give it update because you knew it wouldn't get
Al: game of the year.
Micah: No, no, no, no, what I said was I wanted to give it update because I didn't nominate it as one of my options for game of the year and
Al: Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Aislinn: - Okay, yeah, that's fair.
Micah: And I said it I would wait because I figured it was going to get nominated and that would be a
Micah: deeper discussion from that point
Al: All right. Okay, uh, I think
Micah: I'm very happy with that though. I'm very happy with that as well.
Aislinn: I'm happy with the two.
Al: good. We're all happy with the winner. It might not be anybody's
Al: top game, but collectively it is our average to best game. It is a great game. And also,
Al: it's how this is not the reason for doing it.
Aislinn: Yeah, I think too, it also encapsulates the theme of the podcast well.
Aislinn: It meshes well with this podcast, awesome that it's indie.
Aislinn: And even though we live in a society, we're farming games, our over-saturated,
Micah: We do.
Aislinn: Snacko feels like a farming game that stands out amongst the rest of them.
Micah: Totally and also you place cats and they're based on the developers cats and that's really all you need to know and that's why you should play it because it's so cute so
Aislinn: Oh. (laughs)
Al: All right, I think we're going to wrap things up there because we're two and a half hours a total of four and a half hours regarding today.
Al: I guess we'll see you all next year when Pocopia wins.
Aislinn: No, guys! Daaah!
Micah: uh, you can follow me on most socials unfortunately at Mike of the brave. Um, I have been
Al: My car is there anything you would like to share with the audience before we go.
Micah: leading more towards Instagram as the social did for it. It used to be Twitter, but it's a
Micah: nightmare on there. So, uh, but I'm pretty much everywhere. I've also been streaming more again
Micah: uh, if you want to come by and hang out. Uh, and that's also Mike's a brave. That's pretty much it.
Al: uh, Azeland, why about you?
Aislinn: Pretty much also on just about all socials, AIDS trainer, or AIS trainer, is what I usually
Aislinn: go for, everything, I mean I technically have a Twitter, don't bother with it, it's dead
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: in the water, don't even bother.
Al: We don't like the Nazi site, that's all.
Aislinn: I primarily also use Instagram in regards to being relatively social, although I am currently
Aislinn: on a little bit of a break, so...
Aislinn: just to kind of re-center myself, but otherwise I also stream on Twitch, also Asetrainer.
Aislinn: And that's pretty much it.
Aislinn: Oh, I guess I'm moo-n-koo.
Aislinn: Let me do a moo-n-koo plug, check out moo-n-koo, actually.
Al: Ooh, it's nearly, it's a nearly time.
Aislinn: Oh, yeah, very, as of this episode coming out, we will be dropping very soon.
Aislinn: our K-pop top.
Aislinn: Top 10 K-pop songs of 20/25, it's going to be a time.
Al: I'm so excited.
Al: This is the only the second time you've done this episode
Al: where I have opinions.
Al: [laughing]
Micah: [laughing]
Aislinn: I'm very excited for especially the conversations that Chris and I are going to have for this one.
Al: There's going to be some fun conversations. I'm sure of it. You can
Aislinn: Oh, it's going to be some fun and spicy conversations.
Al: Oh, oh, I look forward to the hot takes
Aislinn: A lot of hot takes.
Al: Perfect you can find the podcast on Tumblr and on blue sky at THS pod and don't look for us on the Nazi site
Al: We don't post there anymore
Al: I think the codes still exists, but I honestly don't know
Al: You can send us feedback.
Al: Tell us why we're wrong about the game of the year and why you think something else should have won.
Al: You can do that from our website harviseason.club.
Al: You can also find there all the links to everything to do with the podcast, including our patreon patreon.com/thspod
Al: where you can access to the slack and talk to us about this.
Al: You can tell us why I'm wrong there.
Al: You can tell me why I'm wrong in lots of different places.
Micah: [laughs]
Al: Only one of those places, only one of those places that you have to pay for, and that's the place where I can then
Al: spawn to you and tell you why I don't care.
Micah: [laughter]
Aislinn: It's also the place where you can also hear more hot takes in the greenhouse episode.
Al: Yes, yes.
Al: You can get access to our bonus podcast episodes where we have an hour and a half long, I think, episode on our other games of the year.
Micah: Yeah, maybe.
Aislinn: [Music]
Al: I don't know how we've spent so much time talking today, but there we are.
Al: Yes, so you can do that for me.
Al: Thank you for listening, and until next year, listeners, have a good harvest.
Aislinn: Yeah, this was super, super fun.
Micah: Have a good harvest
Aislinn: Have a good harvest.
Theme Tune: The Harvest Season is created by Alma Henry with support from our patrons, including our
Theme Tune: pro farmers, Kevin, Stuart, Analisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Micah the Brave, and our music is done by Nick Brutus.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we
Theme Tune: discussed in this episode.
Theme Tune: [Music]
Al: [laughing]
Micah: I, for once was ready this time, usually I'm not.
Aislinn: I don't know why I just wasn't ready. I think brain brain is fried is what's happening.
Al: Uh, I think, four and a half hours, not even, yes.
Micah: That's family, you know, four and a half hours.
Al: This call has been going on for four and a half hours.